WYL.GG.PUB.INTDOC#GANDALF
Created on 03/30/93 by Lincoln Ong
Updated on 04/30/93 by Lincoln Ong
Stanford Data Center                        DC Systems Group
* INTERNAL DOCUMENT *                       Technical Note


Gandalf and Octel transactions are collected on OldLindy (a
SUN-4/280) and Lindy (a SUN SPARCstation 2), respectively, and are
transferred and archived on Forsythe (an IBM ES9000-900) on a
nightly basis.

Originally, in June 1988, we were only collecting the Gandalf
port transactions.  The persons responsible for this initial
implementation were Doug Koch, Jim Nisbet and Lincoln Ong.  The
statistics port from each of the four Gandalfs were connected to
a serial port on Lindy, then, a SUN-3/280.  A program, file
/main/ports/portmon, running continuously, one per port, listens
and prefixes each record with:

   - Gandalf node name
   - Date and time stamp (UNIX format)

and appends the data on the file /main/ports/ports.daily.

If errors were detected, Lindy's console would display the error
and it would also be appended in the file /main/ports/errlog.  At
01:00, the current log file /main/ports/ports.daily would be
switched to /main/ports/ports.daily.old, to allow the collection
of new data.

On the Forsythe system, under SPIRES SUBMIT, a 02:00 nightly job,
data set WYL.GC.GAN.SUBMIT#GANDALF, is submitted on account
GC.GAN, to transfer and clear the transaction log.  Each day's
transaction log is saved as a separate data set with the dsname
pattern of WYL.GC.GAN.DAILYnn, where 'nn' would be number of the
day of the month.  These data sets would be replaced with each
subsequent month's processing.  A WYLBUR pseudo command, SHOW
GANDALF was implemented to allow the viewing of the current
transactions, errors, or to reset the error log.

A request from Communication Services for collecting the Octel
Maxum transaction data in a similar fashion was made in the
Autumn 1992, but Lindy had been upgraded since to a Sun
SPARCstation 2, which does not have the number of serial ports
that the old hardware supported.  It was briefly explored that an
expansion box would be added to support additional serial ports
on the new Lindy, but it was determined that the means of
connecting the statistics serial ports to Lindy would not be
adequate and cost effective.

Using Jim Nisbet's portmon program as a basis, Jim Stosick wrote
a new version, file /usr/local/bin/portlog, that uses TCP/IP and
listens to a particular port.  (An interesting and useful outcome
of this rewrite is that this new tool can be used to gather any
information that can be gleaned by "listening" to a TCP/IP port.)
Doug Kock then connected the Send and Receive statistics ports
from the Octel Maxum to dedicated ports on the Gandalf TIP.  The
transfer (data set WYL.GC.MAX.SUBMIT#GETSTATS) and interactive
display (data set WYL.GS.WYL.COMMANDS#SHOLOG) processing on
Forsythe was re-written to be simpler and easier to maintain by
Lincoln Ong.

Since January 1993, the Octel Maxum transaction logs have been
displayable interactively, and since early March 1993, the
transaction logs have been transferred and archived on Forsythe.
However, the Gandalf transaction logs are still being processed
on OldLindy, and this needs to be changed to use the same
connection method as the Octel Maxum.

The commands to display the various transaction logs
interactively is as follows:

   SHOW GANDALF [PREVIOUS|ERRORS [RESET]] [collect-options]
   SHOW OCTEL [PREVIOUS] [collect-options]

   The SHOW GANDALF or SHOW OCTEL command displays the transaction log for that
   particular communications device.  These commands are only valid for group G
   accounts (Data Center internal).

   PREVIOUS        displays yesterday's transaction log.

   ERRORS [RESET]  ERRORS displays the current Gandalf error log.  RESET
                   specifies that the current Gandalf error log be cleared. The
                   RESET option is restricted to accounts in either group GC or
                   group GG.

   collect-options allow you to insert the system response to the command into
                   the active file.  Type HELP COLLECT-OPTIONS for a
                   description of these options.

If the SPIRES SUBMIT processing should fail or something should
prevent the transfering of the particular transaction log, issue
the command:

   XCALL WYL.GC.MAX.SUBMIT#GETSTATS /type

where 'type' is either GANDALF or OCTEL (the most important
option).  To obtain a description of all the options available,
replace 'type' with HELP.
