The following options may be specified for the ALLOCATE command.  Most are
also relevant to the FILE_WRITE command.

NAME (included in the sample defines) is the file name, either qualified or
unqualified.

USER, GROUP, ACCOUNT may be used to qualify the name in the normal way.

         I understand that you will eventually pass only fully-qualified
         names; I eagerly await the opportunity to rip out all the name
         resolution code in WINGS.

RECFM, LRECL, BLKSIZE, previously used with FILE_WRITE, are also allowable on
ALLOCATE.  Allowable RECFM values are EDIT, V, VA, F, FA.  Default for
FILE_WRITE is EDIT; no default for ALLOCATE.  Appropriate error msg is
generated for invalid values of RECFM.

PRIQTY, SECQTY, DIRQTY are used with ALLOCATE.  If DIRQTY is omitted, a
sequential data set is allocated.  If PRIQTY is omitted, a file the size of
the current active file is allocated.  If SECQTY is omitted, default secondary
is zero (see note below).  If these values are used with FILE_WRITE, they
override the BYTEGUESS value.

ALOCUNIT={TRK|CYL|KB} Specifies the units of PRIQTY and SECQTY in ALLOCATE.
KB is the default.  WYLBUR should allow the user to indicate which unit he is
using.

VOL specifies a target volume for ALLOCATE; if VOL is omitted then the file
will be allocated on the LIB volume if possible.  Otherwise, a nonspecific
volume request is made.

DATACLAS, MGMTCLAS, STORCLAS may be specified with ALLOCATE, but in our
current environment will usually cause an allocation failure.

Added option on OPEN, REQTYPE=WRITE:

EXPAND={YES|NO} controls the use of secondary allocations when saving in a
PDS.  EXPAND=YES will allow use of an existing secondary value; it could also
be used with an overriding secondary value.

The current ALLOCATE command provides a secondary allocation value, but
current SAVE logic will not use it.  The new ALLOCATE defaults to zero
secondary, and I have added the EXPAND={YES|NO} option to allow use of
secondary extents.  These require changes on the WYLBUR side to become
effective.  My intention is that EXPAND=YES be the default, and that those who
don't want their libraries to grow should allocate them with no secondary.  I
have a program that can be used to set the secondary allocation value of an
existing library to zero.  Further discussion is probably warranted here.

