OPTIONS:  UNN FORMS=3HOL CHAR=DR12 INDENT=15
DOC#BATCH PUBLIC                            Latest update:  11/16/93
Stanford Data Center                        Creation date:  12/21/84
Stanford University                         Length:        145 lines

This data set contains all updates to the current edition of "Batch
Processing."

************************************************************

The current edition is dated September 1989.  Previous editions are
obsolete.

*11/16/93 HOLDING EXECUTION

Some sample JCL on pages 146 and 147 shows a JOBPARM statement with
the option HOLD=EXEC.  This is incorrect; it should be HOLD=JOB, as
shown elsewhere in the document.


*07/20/92 KEEP OPTION HOLDS JOB OUTPUT AFTER PRINTING
This is not a recent change to the system, but rather corrects an
omission in "Batch Processing".

The KEEP option is used to hold output in the system's output queue
after a job has been printed.  Purpose of the option is to keep
available on the system a copy of a job that may be difficult or
costly to reproduce until you have received the printout and examined
it to be sure it is satisfactory.  You invoke this option by adding
KEEP to a RUN or PRINT command; in JCL this option is requested by
specifying KEEP=YES on the JOBPARM statement.

The fact that a job has been returned to the output queue and placed
in output hold after printing will be shown in the response to the
LOCATE command after the job has been printed.  For example:

  JOB 1234 UUUGGNNN  AWAITING PRINT PRIO=9 (PRINTED) (OUTPUT HOLD)

If your printout is lost or printed incorrectly, use the RELEASE
command to release the job from output hold and print another copy.
After reprinting, the job will again be returned to the output queue
and placed in hold status.

If KEEP is specified, job output will be kept in the queue for 48
hours after printing.  After 48 hours the job will be purged from the
system if it has not been released for reprinting.  Kept output will
be purged after the 48-hour period has expired even if PURGE=NO was
specified on the JOBPARM card, to avoid having forgotten output
unnecessarily reprinted.  If kept output is released for reprinting,
it will be returned to the queue after it has been reprinted and a
new 48-hour holding period will begin.

If you want to remove your job from the system without waiting for it
to be removed automatically, use the PURGE command.


*04/02/92  New LSTART and LDATE Job Scheduling Options

LSTART and LDATE job scheduling options have been added to the
JOBPARM statement.  These options work like the START and DATE
options, but specify the LATEST time and date that a batch job can
begin executing.  For example,  /*JOBPARM LSTART=06:00  specifies
that the job cannot start executing after 6 AM.  LDATE defaults to
the current date unless a DATE option was specified.  If DATE is
specified then LDATE will default to that date.

The LSTART and LDATE options also have been added to the ALTER
command, with the same syntax as the current START and DATE options.

Consider the following jobparm:

  /*JOBPARM START=5:00,LSTART=5:30

This job will be released to run at 5 o'clock in the morning.  If it
has not run by 5:30, it will be put back on hold.


*10/26/91  Additional information on LOCATE...INFO command

A new piece of information will be added to the LOCATE command
response if the INFO option is specified.  If the job being located
is in the output queue and has multiple output queue entries then
each response line will give an OUTGRP identifier.  For example,

LOC 1234 INFO
JOB 1234 TESTJOB AWAITING PRINT 7 F=3HOL OUTGRP=1.1.1 L=2,537
JOB 1234 TESTJOB AWAITING PRINT 9 F=AVR1 OUTGRP=2.1.1 L=1,234

'OUTGRP'is the IBM term for the internal identifier associated with
each entry in the output queue.  Each output queue entry created for
a job will have an OUTGRP identifier which is unique within that
job.  This identifier appears in some console and system log
messages.

The OUTGRP identifier can be used on the HOLD, RELEASE, PURGE, and
ALTER commands to speicify which output queue entry is to be
affected by the command.  For example,

    HOLD 1234 OUTGRP 2.1.1
    PURGE 1234 OUTGRP 1.1.1
    ALTER 1234 OUTGRP 1.1.1 TO FORMS BOND


*04/20/91 Class C Added

Add class C as new batch job class.  Class C is like class B, but
class C jobs are not single-threaded by account.  One user account
can have up to 4 class C jobs executing at the same time.


* 04/11/90  CHANGE TO OUTPUT QUEUE HOLD TIME FOR WEEKEND JOBS

Currently held output left in the system from the weekend is not
purged until 48 hours after the end of the weekend block.  Since the
weekend block ends at 6 AM on Monday, output left from the weekend
stays in the system until 6 AM on Wednesday morning.

Under the new output hold time schedule, at 10 PM on Tuesday evening
jobs left in output hold from the weekend will be removed from the
system if they have been in the queue for more than 48 hours. This
will free up more spool space before the Tuesday night processing
begins.  If Tuesday is a holiday then the schedule will be shifted
one day and weekend output will be purged on Wednesday night.

This change does not reduce the basic 48 hour holding period for
jobs in output hold.  Only jobs left over from the weekend which
have been in the queue for over 48 hours are affected by the Tuesday
evening purge.  Otherwise there is no change to the current practice
of exempting weekend or holiday periods from the 48 hour output hold
time.

The output queue hold time only affects jobs which are in output
hold.  There is no time limit for jobs which have been kept in the
queue because a printer is down or because special forms are not
available.

This change affects output in the SYSA/SYSC shared spool system.
The output hold schedule on SYSB will not be changed.

* 01/16/90  Xerox 4090 Printer Replaces 9700

A new Xerox 4090 laser printer has been installed; it replaces the
Xerox 9700 printer.  With very few exceptions, jobs that printed
on the 9700 will print identically on the 4090.  References to the
9700 should be replaced by references to the 4090.
