DOC#CLASS50 PUBLIC                          Latest update:  06/08/87
Information Technology Services             Creation date:  06/08/87
Stanford University                         Length:        121 lines

                           CLASS CODE 50

You can access local or long-distance hosts and/or bulletin boards
not served directly by the Data Center in several ways.  If you
subscribe to Communication Services' Standard Dedicated Data Service
(Gandalf), you can connect to off-campus computing resources or to
on-campus computing resources (not accessible directly through the
Gandalf) via an "out-dial" modem pool (NEC N2420/30HE modems)
located in Forsythe Hall.  You access the "out-dial" modem pool by
using Class Code 50.  If you do not have a dedicated data line, you
can connect to the "out-dial" modem pool via a modem that connects
to your microcomputer or terminal and to a telephone line.  If you
experience problems in using Class Code 50, call 3-1611 to report
the trouble.

TO ACCESS THE "OUT-DIAL" MODEM POOL VIA A DEDICATED DATA LINE, DO
THE FOLLOWING:

1.  Turn on your terminal or microcomputer.

2.  Press the RETURN/ENTER key.

3.  The following prompt should appear:

    ENTER CLASS

4.  Type 50 and press the RETURN/ENTER key.  The following messages
    should appear:

    NEC 300/1200/2400 BAUD DIAL SERVICE.

    USE HAYES COMMANDS ONLY.  FOR HELP CALL 723-1611.

    CLASS START

5a.  To reach an off-campus resource (located within the local
     dialing area) type:

    ATDT9, a comma, and the seven-digit telephone number (for
    example:  ATDT9,9641234) and press the RETURN/ENTER key.

5b.  To reach an off-campus resource (located outside the local
     dialing area) type:

    ATDT9, a comma, the area code, seven-digit telephone
    number, another comma, and your long-distance authorization code
    (for example:  ATDT9,6169494399,12345) and press the
    RETURN/ENTER key.

5c.  To reach an on-campus resource (not directly accessible,
     through the Gandalf) type:

    ATDT plus the five-digit on-campus telephone number
    (for example: ATDT31234) and press the RETURN/ENTER key.

6.  At this point, the cursor jumps to the beginning of the string
    of letters and numbers you just typed.  The cursor will continue
    blinking at the beginning of the string until connection occurs
    (several seconds).

7.  Connection should occur.  You will see the message

      CONNECT (followed by the baud rate at which your terminal is
      set.)

     Wait approximately five seconds and press the RETURN/ENTER key.

8.  A blinking cursor indicates the command line.

TO ACCESS THE "OUT-DIAL" MODEM POOL USING A MODEM, DO THE FOLLOWING:

1.  Turn on your microcomputer or terminal.

2.  Follow the dialing instructions in your modem's instruction
    manual for keyboard dial.

3.  Dial 723-8000 (from on-campus, dial 3-8000).  In some instances,
    you might need to place a pause (see your modem instruction
    manual) at the end of the telephone number to give the Data
    Center time to answer.

4.  After receiving the modem "connect" or "online" prompt, press
    the RETURN/ENTER key.

5.  Follow instructions 3-8 for ACCESSING THE "OUT-DIAL" MODEM POOL
    VIA A DEDICATED DATA LINE.

NOTES
=====

*  ATDT must be in upper-case.

*  If the "out-dial" modem pool is busy, you will see the message

   class busy

   queue size 0001(2,3,etc.) Do you wish to queue?

If you wish to queue, press the RETURN/ENTER key.

*  If you mis-dial, the following prompt will appear:

   NO CARRIER

If this happens, press the RETURN/ENTER key.  The ENTER CLASS prompt
will appear and you can start over.

*  If you are unable to log on, check the baud rate at which your
terminal or microcomputer is set.  The baud rate should be set at
300, 1200, or 2400 baud.

*  As a courtesy to other Class Code 50 users, please turn your
microcomputer or terminal off when your Class Code 50 session
concludes.  If you don't, there is a twenty-minute delay before the
Data Center modem disconnects.  In other words, that modem will
remain "busy" for twenty minutes after you log off and another user
might not be able to log on.
