DOC#EISPACK PUBLIC                         Latest update:  03/01/84
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  00/00/77
Stanford University                        Length:        317 lines


                           Using EISPACK

EISPACK (The EIgenSystem PACKage) is a package of subroutines from
the National Activity for Testing Software (NATS) of Argonne
National Laboratory developed to solve eigenvalue - eigenvector
problems of many varieties.  Primarily, this means finding some or
all numbers lambda (eigenvalues) and, optionally, also vectors x
(eigenvectors) such that A*x=lambda*x where A is a matrix which has
certain properties.  Also handled are some generalized
eigenproblems, and the problem of finding the singlular value
decomposition of a matrix.

The routines in EISPACK implement the most up-to-date,
state-of-the-art techniques in this area. They have been programmed
for maximum efficiency, and they are well tested.  They are
primarily FORTRAN translations of the ALGOL 60 procedures published
by Wilkinson and Reinsch (5).  The EISPACK package is fully
documented in the manual (1).

This document briefly describes how to choose what routines to use
in EISPACK to solve your problem, and where to look for further
documentation of the routines.  For some basic theoretical insight
into whether your problem is likely to be easily and accurately
solved or not, and some references to the literature describing the
numerical methods in more detail, see "Numerical Analysis Program
Library User's Guide."

The choice of a method depends on the properties of the matrix A.
Some of the important properties of a matrix relevant to this
problem are:

CLASSIFYING A PROBLEM

Real or Complex - If all the elements of A are real then A is said
to be REAL, otherwise A is COMPLEX.

Symmetry - A is said to be HERMITIAN if A'=A where A' means the
"complex conjugate transpose" of A. If A is real, then A is
SYMMETRIC if the transpose of A equals A (i.e., if A(i,j)=A(j,i) for
all i,j).

Banded - A is a BAND matrix if there exists m<n-1 such that A(i,j)=0
for |i-j|>m.  If m=1, then A is called TRIDIAGONAL.

The problem can also be classified by how many of the eigenvalues
and eigenvectors are sought.  For example, you might want to find
all the eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenvectors, or only a
few of the largest eigenvalues and no eigenvectors.

Time and storage can be saved by using routines which are designed
to handle a particular type of problem.

DESIGN OF THE PACKAGE

One feature of the EISPACK routines is modularity of design: a
number of routines are combined together to form a working program.
This design has the advantage of separating the tasks for each
routine, thus each routine can be programmed for maximum efficiency.
This also provides more flexibility for you to choose the routines
optimally to solve a particular problem.  Although passing
parameters between several subroutines involves some runtime
overhead, flexibility and conciseness in the code override this
disadvantage.

The routines may be used in three ways:

   They may be called individually, so that, for example, a sequence
   of five routines may be called to find all eigenvalues and
   eigenvectors of a real general matrix.

   Most of the common eigenproblems may be solved by calling a
   driver program, which in turn calls the required sequence of
   routines, so that, for example, the driver program RG may be
   called to find all eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a real general
   matrix.

   A large variety of eigenproblems, including all those having
   driver programs associated with them, may be solved by calling
   the "control program" called EISPAC, passing some appropriately
   selected keywords to it, so that, for example, one call to EISPAC
   may also find all eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a real general
   matrix.

The third approach is very convenient but the main objection to it
is that the control program, EISPAC, may not be used under WATFIV.
For detailed information on how to use EISPAC see the
online file (3).

CHOOSING YOUR ROUTINES

To use WATFIV, look at the table, "Summary of Recommended Sequences
of Routines to Call in EISPACK," at the end of this document.  Then
select the routines or driver program to use to solve your problem.
If you plan to use the control program, EISPAC, the table is still
useful. It gives you an idea of what options are available using
EISPAC and, in some cases, refers you to a section of the book (1).

For most kinds of matrices, if you wish to find all the eigenvalues
or all the eigenvalues and all the eigenvectors of a matrix, you can
call a single driver program to solve the problem as indicated in
the table.  However, if something else is required, for example, if
only a few of the eigenvalues and eigenvectors are desired, then it
is necessary to call a sequence of routines as indicated in the
table, or else to use the control program EISPAC where applicable.

DOCUMENTATION

There are three sources of documentation for the EISPACK package.
The book (1) gives an introduction to the package and explains in
detail how to call routines to solve all problems except band matrix
problems, generalized eigenproblems and the singular value
decomposition problem.  It also explains in detail various options
in the package, gives timing results, and contains individual
documentation in each routine in the package (including the control
program) except for the problems just noted.  The report (2)
contains individual documentation for every subroutine and driver
program in the package as well as for the control program EISPAC.
This information is also all stored in an online disk file (3).
Thus, if your problem is not a band matrix problem, generalized
eigenproblem or singular value decomposition problem, you should
consult the appropriate section of the book (1), which is referred
to in the Table, to find out how to put the sequence of individual
routines together, how to call the driver program if there is one,
or how to call the control program EISPAC to solve the problem.  If
your problem is one of those noted, you must consult either the
report (2) or the online file (3) for appropriate documentation.

To use the online file type from your terminal:

   > USE $SYS4.CSD.EISPACK.DOC#routine

where "routine" could be an individual routine name, a driver
program name, or EISPAC.

Finally, there is an entry in MASTERLIST for every routine in
EISPACK.  See "MASTERLIST" for explanations about the functions of
the routines.  MASTERLIST also tells you where to find the EISPACK
source and load module libraries.  However, you do not need to know
these names normally since any of the driver programs or any of the
individual subroutines may be called directly from your program
using either WATFIV or the standard FORTRAN JCL cataloged
procedures.  The control program EISPAC may be called directly from
your program using the standard FORTRAN procedures provided the
following statement is included just before the //GO.SYSIN
statement:

   //GO.EISPACLB  DD  DSN=SYS4.CSD.EISPACK.LMD

Remember, the control program is not callable from WATFIV.

REFERENCES

B.T. Smith, et al - Matrix Eigensystem Routines:  "EISPACK Guide,"
Springer-Verlag, 1974. Available in Computer Science Library.

Garbow, Burton and Dongarra, J.J.  "Path Chart and Documentation for
the EISPACK Package" of Matrix Eigensystem Routine," Argonne
National Laboratory Applied Mathematics Division, Report No. TM250,
August 1975.

SYS4.CSD.EISPACK.DOC (online file)

"Numerical Analysis Program Library User's Guide," Stanford Center
for Information Processing, Stanford University, 1976.

Wilkinson, J.H. and Reinsch, C.  "Handbook for Automatic
Computation," Vol. 2, Linear Algebra, Springer-Verlag, 1971.

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDED SEQUENCES OF ROUTINES TO CALL IN EISPACK

For details on what each routine does, see individual MASTERLIST
entry or the online file (3).  For details on how to call each
subroutine or driver program, see the section of the book (1)
referred to in the table or individual documentation in the online
file (3).  All sections referenced in the table are from the book
(1).

Except where noted, an alternative to calling any sequence of
routines or driver program is (for non-WATFIV users) to call the
control program EISPAC - see the section referred to in the table or
the online file (3) for details.

This table refers to all the subroutines in EISPACK except RATQR,
TQL1 and TSTURM.  The first two of these appear to perform the same
functions but be inferior to TRIDIB and TQLRAT respectively, and the
third to be a simple alternative to using BISECT and TINVIT together
(see sections 2.1.4, 2.1.3 and 2.1.5 respectively).

Basic problem/             How Many      How Many     Driver              Individual                Section in
matrix type to            Eigenvalues  Eigenvectors   Program              Routines                the book (1)
be solved                                             to use                to use


Complex General
                              all          none        CG          CBAL,CORTH,COMQR                      2.1.2
                              all          all         CG          CBAL,CORTH,COMQR2,CBABK2              2.1.1
                              all          some        --          CBAL,CORTH,COMQR,CINVIT,CORTB,CBABK2  2.1.3

An alternative is to use elementary instead of orthogonal
transformations and the LR method instead of the QR method by
calling the above routines with CORTH,COMQR,COMQR2 and CORTB
replaced by COMHES,COMLR,COMLR2 and COMBAK respectively (this may be
faster but may be more inaccurate).  (See section 2.1.6)

Complex Hermitian
                              all          none        CH          HTRIDI,TQLRAT                         2.1.5
                              all          all         CH          HTRIDI,TQL2,HTRIBK                    2.1.4
                              some         none        --          HTRIDI,BISECT  *                      2.1.7
                              some         some        --          HTRIDI,BISECT,TINVIT,HTRIBK  *        2.1.6

Storage may be saved packing the complex Hermitian matrix into one
real array by calling the above routine with HTRIDI and HTRIBK
replaced by HTRID3 and HTRIB3 respectively.  (See section 2.2.9)

Real General
                           all          none        RG          BALANC,ELMHES,HQR                     2.1.9
                           all          all         RG          BALANC,ELMHES,ELTRAN,HQR2,BALBAK      2.1.8
                           all          some        --          BALANC,ELMHES,HQR,INVIT,ELMBAK,BALBAK 2.1.10

An alternative is to use orthogonal instead of elementary
transformations by calling the above routines with
ELMHES,ELTRAN,ELMBAK replaced by ORTHES,ORTRAN,ORTBAK respectively
(may be more accurate but probably slower, and matrices for which it
will be more accurate are considered unlikely to occur in practice).
(See section 2.1.2)

Real Symmetric
                           all          none        RS          TRED1,TQLRAT                          2.1.12
                           all          all         RS          TRED2,TQL2                            2.1.11
                           some         none        --          TRED1,BISECT   *                      2.1.14
                              some         some        --          TRED1,BISECT,TINVIT,TRBAK1  *         2.1.13
   storage saved by packing   all          none        RSP         TRED3,TQLRAT                          2.2.9 (7.1 for RSP)
   one triangle of symmetric  all          all         RSP         TRED3,TQL2,TRBAK3                     2.2.9 (7.1 for RSP)
   matrix into a linear       some         none        --          TRED3,BISECT   *                      2.2.9
   array                      some         some        --          TRED3,BISECT,TINVIT,TRBAK3  *         2.2.9


* See the footnote at the end of the table.
8
1
Basic problem/             How Many      How Many     Driver              Individual                Section in
matrix type to            Eigenvalues  Eigenvectors   Program              Routines                the book (1)
be solved                                             to use                to use

Real Symmetric
Tridiagonal
                              all          none        RST         IMTQL1                                2.1.16
                              all          all         RST         IMTQL2                                2.1.15
                              some         none        --          BISECT   *                            2.1.18
                              some         some        --          BISECT,TINVIT  *                      2.1.17

An alternative is to use the QR method with explicit instead of
implicit shifts by calling TQLRAT and TQL2 instead of IMTQL1 and
IMTQL2 respectively but these may perform poorly on matrices whose
successive row sums vary widely in magnitude and are not strictly
increasing.  (A good performance by IMTQL1 or IMTQL2 on such
matrices may be overshadowed by poor performances by
TRED1,TRED2,HTRIDI etc.  which is why IMTQL1 and IMTQL2 are not
recommended as part of the sequence for real symmetric or complex
Hermitian full matrices.) (See section 2.1.3)

Real Unsymmetric
Tridiagonal (special class)
                              all          none        RT          FIGI,IMTQL1                           2.1.20
                              all          all         RT          FIGI2,IMTQL2                          2.1.19
                              some         none        --          FIGI,BISECT  *                        2.1.22
                              some         some        --          FIGI,BISECT,TINVIT,BAKVEC             2.1.21
Real Symmetric Band
                              all          none        RSB         BANDR,TQLRAT                            --
                              all          all         RSB         BANDR,TQL2                              --
                              some         none        --          BANDR,BISECT  *                         --
                              some         some        --          BANDR,BISECT,BANDV                      --

BQR can be used instead of BANDR and BISECT - it determines one
eigenvalue per call, deflating the matrix before returning, and
usually computes an eigenvalue closest to a certain given value.  It
is not callable by the control program EISPAC.

Real General Generalized Eigenproblem
A*x=lambda*B*x
where A,B are arbitrary real matrices
                              all          none        RGG         QZHES,QZIT,QZVAL                        --
                              all          all         RGG         QZHES,QZIT,QZVAL,QZVEC                  --

Real Symmetric Generalized Eigenproblems:

In the following, A and B are real symmetric matrices and B is
positive definite.

     A*x=lambda*B*x           all          none        RSG         REDUC,TRED1,TQLRAT                      --
     A*x=lambda*B*x           all          all         RSG         REDUC,TRED2,TQL2,REBAK                  --
     A*B*x=lambda*x           all          none        RSGAB       REDUC2,TRED1,TQLRAT                     --
     A*B*x=lambda*x           all          all         RSGAB       REDUC2,TRED2,TQL2,REBAK                 --
     B*A*x=lambda*x           all          none        RSGBA       REDUC2,TRED1,TQLRAT                     --
     B*A*x=lambda*x           all          all         RSGBA       REDUC2,TRED2,TQL2,REBAKB                --

Singular Value Decomposition
    For complete decomposition - subroutine SVD
    For use in solving least squares problems - subroutine MINFIT
    Neither routine is callable by the control program EISPAC

* BISECT computes those eigenvalues of a symmetric tridiagonal
matrix which are within a specified interval.  Alternatives are:

- if a certain number of eigenvalues (e.g., the three smallest or
the second largest) are wanted rather than those in some interval,
use TRIDIB instead.  (See section 2.1.8)

- if all the eigenvalues and some of the eigenvectors are wanted
rather than some of the eigenvalues and the corresponding
eigenvectors, use IMTQLV instead - this is not callable by the
control program EISPAC.  (See section 2.1.7)
