DOC#FILETRAN PUBLIC                         Latest update:  11/25/86
Information Technology Services             Creation date:  06/11/85
Stanford University                         Length:        240 lines

Instructions for using the File Transfer Service for IBM PCs
provided by Community Information Resources, Information Technology
Services


You may want to move files from your IBM PC to the mainframe in
Forsythe or, perhaps, in the opposite direction -- from the
mainframe to your microcomputer.  Moving data from your micro to the
mainframe is a process known as uploading.  Transfers going the
other way, mainframe to micro, are called downloads.

Reasons to download data include spreadsheet use, quicker access,
storage cost savings.  You may need some of your PC files uploaded
to the mainframe in order to use the high speed printers in
Forsythe, to analyze large data files, or to run software
unavailable on the smaller machines.

Transfers of data between the mainframe and your IBM PC using SAMSON
may take hours over phone lines at 300 or even 1200 baud.  To reduce
this time, I.T.S. has instituted a service to have your files up- or
downloaded for you at 9600 baud.  There is a small fee, charged to
your account, for each diskette used in the process.  In order to
use this service, you should have a basic knowledge of WYLBUR and an
understanding of legal filenames both in WYLBUR and in DOS on the
IBM PC.  The file transfer procedure works for IBM PCs or compatible
equipment running DOS 2.1 or higher versions.


PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING FILE TRANSFERS

The I.T.S. Information Desk provides a file transfer service for
$5.00 per diskette.  Using Samson, an I.T.S.-written terminal
emulation and file transfer program, the service provides for
uploading and downloading information from IBM PC 5 1/4" diskettes,
to and from the Data Center mainframe.  For an additional $3.00 per
diskette, files can be transferred twice.  This provides you with a
way to check data integrity.

To request this service, complete an authorization form.  There are
two types of authorization forms:

      1. Per Request Authorization Form - which means you will have
         to complete an authorization form each time you request a
         transfer.

      2. A Blanket Authorization Form - allows you to complete one
         authorization which covers all transfer requests made
         for that account.  For this form to be valid, the account
         sponsor must sign the authorization form.

Once one of these forms has been completed, run the EXEC file
called TRANSFER to submit the names of the files and other pertinent
information.  Type UTIL TRANSFER to invoke the EXEC file.

If you are using a Per Request Authorization Form, you must complete
the form and return it along with any diskettes to the Information
Desk for processing.

If you have a Blanket Authorization Form on file at the Information
Desk, you do not need to return an authorization form.  You may have
to deliver diskettes to the Information Desk depending what type of
transfer you requested.  If you are requesting a download and I.T.S.
is providing the diskettes, you do not need to drop off anything.


Turn Around Time

Assuming the volume of data is not too great (for example, fewer
than ten diskettes), your files will be transferred by the end of
the following business day.  Turn around time on large requests will
be decided on a case-by-case basis.  In either case you will be
notified once the transfer has been completed.


UPLOADING

Files are written to account GA.FTR and named
WYL.GA.FTR.gg.uuu.filename, where gg.uuu is your account number
and filename is the name you request through UTIL TRANSFER.
Files will remain there for only TWO working days.  It is your
responsibility to copy the files to your account.  For example, the
USE and SAVE commands may be used to move your files to your
account.

When requesting the transfer of multiple diskettes, it is your
responsibility to see that duplicate file names do not exist.  A
check will not be done for file names already existing on the
mainframe.  Be sure that the file you will be uploading will not
replace an existing file on the mainframe.

All micro file utilities should be performed before transferring the
files, so that WYLBUR can read the files.  For example, if you would
like to print a MultiMate file using the 9700 laser printer, you
must convert the file to a ASCII file using MultiMate Advanced
Utilities.  This type of preparation WILL NOT be completed for you.
This does not apply to files that are uploaded with the TRANSPARENT
option.


DOWNLOADING

Files that are being downloaded should be standard WYLBUR edit
format, or fixed block with a record length no greater than 235.
This does not apply to files that are being transferred with the
TRANSPARENT option.

It is your responsibility to provide the appropriate number of
diskettes when requesting a download (unless I.T.S. is supplying the
diskettes at $5.00 per diskette).  A single diskette will store
approximately 360,000 characters.  If you do not provide enough
diskettes, you will be notified by electronic mail that not all of
your files would fit on the number of diskettes provided, and that
subsequent files were not downloaded.  Additional diskettes can be
dropped off or, at your option, I.T.S. will supply them at $5.00
per diskette.

Samson cannot split large files across multiple diskettes.  It is
your responsibility to break up large files into two or more smaller
files so they will fit on multiple diskettes as separate files.


DATA INTEGRITY

I.T.S. cannot guarantee the data integrity of the transferred files.
Despite the small possibility of your diskette's data being
destroyed in uploading, we urge you to make backup copies of your
files before giving your diskettes to I.T.S.  I.T.S. will not be
responsible for loss of data.  The only compensation that will be
provided is a new blank diskette.


USING THE TRANSPARENT OPTION

The TRANSPARENT option should be specified only for files to be
used on a microcomputer.  Normally, this option is used so that
microcomputer users far apart can exchange files.


USING THE WRAP and STREAM OPTIONS

The WRAP and STREAM options may be specified.  Use the WRAP option
when uploading a file to the mainframe to break lines at a specific
column, with text breaking at the closest blank for the column
specified.

Use the STREAM option to consecutive lines of text that are NOT
indented to be saved as one long "stream" of text.  Hard carriage
returns will be added only at the end of the stream.


MAILING DISKETTES

You may request that the diskettes be mailed to you once the
transfer is completed.  The diskettes may be mailed through Stanford
Interdepartmental Mail (ID Mail) or United Postal Service (UPS).
The cost for mailing diskettes is $5.00 per request for ID Mail;
for UPS, it is $5.00 plus UPS charges per request.  UPS charges
varying depending on weight.


Below are the two types of authorization forms.

Request for Blanket Authorization for File Transfers

This is a blanket authorization to allow the Information Center to
complete file transfer requests that they receive through electronic
mail from the account listed below.  This eliminates the need to
complete an authorization form for each transfer request.  This
authorization remains in effect until a letter is written revoking
this privilege.

It is understood that the following applies:

   1.  All requests must be made via UTIL TRANSFER.

   2.  For downloads:  You may request that I.T.S. provide the
       diskettes.  In which case, you will be charged $5.00
       per diskette.  Otherwise, you must deliver the diskettes
       you would like to provide for the transfer to the
       Information Desk.

   3.  For uploads:  You must deliver the diskettes to the
       Information Desk.


-------------------------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer:  I understand that I.T.S. assumes no responsibility for
lost data and does not guarantee data quality after the transfer is
completed.  If a diskette is destroyed, my only compensation will be
a new blank diskette.


_____________________________           Account ___ ___.___ ___ ___
Signature of Account Sponsor            (must be a chargeable I.T.S.
                                         account number)
_____________________________
Date



-------------------------------------------------------------------
For Office Use Only

Date Received:____________________  By:_____________

Date Verified:____________________  By:_____________



Per Request Authorization Form

I request that the files I specified in UTIL TRANSFER be copied as
specified in the EXEC.

Disclaimer:  I understand that I.T.S. assumes no responsibility for
lost data and does not guarantee data quality after the transfer is
completed.  If a diskette is destroyed, my only compensation will be
a new diskette.


NAME: ____________________________  ACCOUNT:  __ __ . __ __ __
                                             (must be a chargeable
                                              I.T.S. account number)

SIGNATURE: _________________________  DATE: __________________

DAY and EVENING PHONE NUMBERS:________________________________

Circle one:    UPLOAD        DOWNLOAD

If you are requesting a download, would you like to purchase
diskettes for $5.00 each.   Circle one:

             NO       YES


