DOC#LPLOT PUBLIC
Information Technology Services             Latest update:  12/16/86
Stanford University                         Length:        173 lines


Instructions for using the self-service HP7475A 6-pen flatbed color
plotter in the User-Operated Equipment Room at Forsythe Hall, or
similar local plotters or graphics devices supported by SAS/GRAPH:

For the contents of the file, type the command:  LIST '*' 1
For particular topics, type the command:  LIST 'topic'


*Plotting Equipment
-------------------

This plotting service has been tested on the HP7475 and HP7550 color
pen plotters.  It should be possible to use other types of plotters
or graphics devices supported by SAS/GRAPH.

The plotter must be connected to a terminal or personal computer
that can be logged on to the ITS Data Center.  The type of
connection used is the same as that used to do local printing with
the LPRINT command.

The plotter may be connected to the printer port of a terminal.  In
this case the terminal must be a DEC VT100 or VT220 terminal, or a
compatible terminal like the CIE CIT-220 or the GraphOn GO-230.

If the plotter is connected to an IBM PC (or compatible), then you
must be logged on to the Data Center with Samson to do your plotting.
When you are ready to plot you must use the DOS MODE command to
assign LPT1: to your plotting device.

If your computer is the HP-150 then the plotter must have an HP-IB
interface rather than an RS-232 interface.  Because of an error in
the HP-150 internal microcode, Samson cannot transmit data to an
auxiliary device connected to an HP-150 communication port.  If your
plotter has an HP-IB interface, before plotting you must run
DEVCONFG and assign PRN: to the plotter.


*Forsythe Hall Plotter
----------------------

You may purchase plotting paper from Document Sales, Forsythe Hall.
Plotting paper is not regular bond paper.  Instead, it is formulated
to resist the flow of ink.  While ITS does not recommend using
regular bond paper, it does work, but not as well.

To load paper, first move the paper lever on the right side of the
plotter to the upright position.  Then insert a single sheet of
plotting paper along the left side of the bed and align the top of
the sheet with the small white bar underneath the pen track.  Then
move the lever to the down position.

The plotter pens are mounted within a carousel that fits into the
plotter.  During the hours that the Information Desk is open, a
carousel that is preloaded with pens is available for you to check
out.  (You will be required to leave an ID card with your picture on
it, such as a driver's license.)

The color list for the device in SAS as established by the local
graphics macro matches the pen arrangement in this carousel.  If you
desire a different color or pen setup, you must provide your own
pens and carousel.  Pens and carousels are for sale in from Document
Sales.

*SAS Job Setup
--------------

The pen plotter attached to the GO-230 terminal in the User-Operated
Equipment Room currently works in the WYLBUR environment.  Before
running your plot job, be sure your JES options include the HOLD
option.  To generate a plot on the plotter with SAS, include the
following options at the beginning of your plot code:

Below is a sample SAS job showing the options needed to generate
plots in a form that can be used for local plotting:

    // JOB
    //  EXEC SAS,SASVER=V516
    //SYSIN DD *
    %include sasautos(hp7475a);
    %hp7475a;
    -- your SAS input starts here --

The '%' lines tell SAS what type of plotter you have.  The following
SAS device identifiers are currently defined:

   HP7470  - HP7470 plotter

   HP7475A - HP7475 plotter, 8.5 by 11 inch paper
   HP7475B - HP7475 plotter, 11 by 17 inch paper

   HP7550A - HP7550 plotter, 8.5 by 11 inch paper
   HP7550B - HP7550 plotter, 11 by 17 inch paper


*Plotting Procedure
-------------------

When you run your SAS job, plot output will be written to SYSOUT=C.
If there is no SYSOUT=C output for your job, then SAS did not create
any plots, probably because of some error in your SAS input data.
SAS will write the plots to the GSFPLOT DD statement in the SAS JCL.
GSF stands for Graphics Stream File, the SAS term for a plot file
generated using this procedure.

If your SAS job generated plot data, the plot file will be held in
the OUTPUT HOLD queue.  Locate the job and fetch the SYSOUT=C file
with the following command, where JOBID is your job number.

   FETCH jobid SYSOUT=C

Before giving the next command, be sure that the paper and pen
carousel are loaded in the plotter.  Then give the command:

   UTIL LPLOT

to run the EXEC file to do the plotting.

If you have an HP7470 or HP7475 plotter you will see a series of
prompts on your screen asking you to set the paper size, insert
paper in the plotter, and verify the pen setup.  For each prompt,
press RETURN when you are ready to continue the plotting process.

If you have specified HP7550A as your plot device, your plots
will be produced without any prompts using paper taken from the
automatic feeder.  If you want to have the system prompt you before
each plot, or if you want to insert paper manually, you can specify
this by including a GOPTIONS statement in your SAS input.  For
example,

    GOPTIONS  PROMPT NOAUTOFEED;

tells SAS to generate terminal prompts before each plot, and also
tells SAS not to use the automatic feeder.

The SAS default color pen setups for these plotters are as follows:

  HP7470  -  black red
  HP7475  -  black red green blue orange lime
  HP7550  -  black red green blue orange lime gold cyan

The SAS/GRAPH Users Guide provides information on how to specify
alternate pen setups.


*Information about HP Plotters
------------------------------

Below are brief descriptions of three Hewlett-Packard color pen
plotters that can be used for local plotting.  The prices listed are
the Stanford prices, and represent a 45% discount from the list
price.

  HP7470A        $602.25
   2 pens
   1 paper size (8.5 by 11 inches)
   either RS-232 or HP-IB interface

  HP7475A       $1042.25
   6 pens
   2 paper sizes (8.5 by 11, 11 by 17 inches)
   either RS-232 or HP-IB interface

  HP7550A       $2145.00
   8 pens
   2 paper sizes (8.5 by 11, 11 by 17 inches)
   RS-232 and HP-IB interfaces included
   includes automatic sheet feeder
   faster plotting than 7470 or 7475
