DOC#SPACE PUBLIC                                             3/29/83
                                                           127 lines

          Estimating Space Requirements for Disk Data Sets

The amount of space required by a disk data set depends on the
record format (RECFM), the logical record length (LRECL), the block
size (BLKSIZE) used, the number of records in the data set, and the
type of disk used.

Block Size (BLKSIZE)

If you are using a "smart" program (IOPROGM or SAS, for example) to
write the data set, you can let it determine the block size.  In
most other cases, however,  you need to specify a block size in your
JCL.  Refer to the documentation for the program you are using for
the block size defaults.

If you are letting the program determine the block size, you may not
know the exact value that will be used.  But you can usually
estimate space adequately without knowing which type of disk will be
used or the exact block size.

        To estimate space requirements, proceed as follows:

If you are copying an existing disk data set, use the WYLBUR command

   SHO DSN LIKE dsname SPACE [ON volume]

to determine how many tracks the data set uses, then specify space
by tracks:  code TRK as the "unit" and set the primary quantity
equal to the number of tracks used.  The secondary quantity is not
critical; a good value is one-fifth of the primary.  For example:

   SPACE=(TRK,(50,10),RLSE)

Otherwise, the easiest way is to allocate space by average block
length.  If you don't know the actual block size (see above), assume
a block length of 6000 for estimating purposes.  This number is used
only for the purpose of having the system calculate the number of
tracks needed.

Determine the RECFM and LRECL to be used, and determine the average
space taken by a record:

   For RECFM=FB, this is equal to LRECL.

   For RECFM=VB, this is equal to the average record length plus
   four.

   For ordinary text in EDIT format, this is approximately equal to
   the line length; for text with many long embedded blanks, it is
   equal to the average squashed line length plus five.

Divide 6000 (or the actual BLKSIZE, if known) by the average record
length, discarding any remainder.  This is approximately the average
number of records per "block".

Divide the number of records by the "records per block" value
(rounding up to the next whole number) to get the number of blocks.

Substitute 6000 (or the actual BLKSIZE) for "unit" in the SPACE
parameter.  Substitute the number of blocks for the "primary-qty" in
the SPACE parameter.  The appropriate value for the "secondary-qty"
is somewhat arbitrary; a good value is one-fifth of the primary
quantity.  For example,

   SPACE=(6000,(150,30),RLSE)

If this is a sequential data set, do NOT code the directory
quantity.  If this is a partitioned data set, estimate the directory
quantity as follows:

   Determine the number of members in the data set.  If you plan to
   add members later, include them in this estimate.  If you run out
   of directory blocks, you must copy the data set to increase the
   size of the directory.  Be generous.

   Assume one block for each 4 members.  This number is the
   directory quantity.

            Releasing Unused Space:  The RLSE Parameter

If you do not plan to add to this data set later, you should tell
the system to release any unused space by coding the RLSE parameter
as shown above.  If you want to reserve the unused space for later
use (such as for adding members to a library), omit the RLSE
parameter and the comma that precedes it.

                     Sample Space Calculations

A CARD format (RECFM=FB,LRECL=80) data set is to contain 13000
records.

    Each record takes exactly 80 bytes, since the records are of
    fixed length.

    The number of records per block is 6000/80 or 75.

    The number of blocks is 13000/75 or 174.

    The result is SPACE=(6000,(174,35),RLSE).

An EDIT format data set contains 3000 lines of text; the line length
is 68.

    The average record length is approximately equal to the nominal
    WYLBUR line length of 68.

    The average number of records per block is 6000/68 or 89.

    The number of blocks is 3000/89 (rounding up) or 34.

    The result is SPACE=(6000,(34,7),RLSE).

                  Sample Disk Output DD Statements

//FT01F001 DD  UNIT=DISK,SPACE=(6000,(5,2),RLSE),DISP=(NEW,CATLG),
//  DSN=WYL.XX.B37.NEWFILE,DCB=CARD

//OUT69  DD  UNIT=DISK,DISP=(NEW,KEEP),VOL=SER=PUB004,
//  DSN=WYL.ZZ.D37.JUNK,DCB=(RECFM=FB,LRECL=120,BLKSIZE=2960),
//  SPACE=(2960,(40,10),RLSE)

//OUTPUT  DD  UNIT=DISK,DISP=(,CATLG),DSN=WYL.D9.Q37.LIB,
//  SPACE=(6000,(50,10,20),RLSE)

