OPTIONS: DEST=FORSYTHE NONUM
DOC#SUBMIT PUBLIC                          Latest update:  01/09/87
Information Technology Services            Creation date:  01/00/81
Stanford University                        Length:        231 lines


SUBMIT is a system, available through SPIRES commands, that provides
automatic and flexible batch job submission.  Each morning, shortly
after midnight, the SUBMIT system is searched and selected jobs are
automatically submitted under the job-owner's account.  Jobs are
selected on the basis of criteria specified when they are placed in
the SUBMIT system.  These criteria, as well as the statements within
the job itself, can be changed after the job has been entered into
SUBMIT.

Jobs are entered, altered, and removed from the SUBMIT system file
by SPIRES commands.  You cannot access any jobs in the file that do
not belong to the logged-on account.  To use SUBMIT, issue the
command:

    COMMAND> call spires

After this initial command, any of the SUBMIT commands can be
issued to enter, alter, or remove jobs from the automatic submission
system.  The general form of all the SUBMIT commands is:

    -> ..<command>  [options]

Two periods immediately precede the command and the options must be
separated from the command by one or more blanks.  Options are also
separated from each other by one or more blanks.

Examples appear in the text that follows.  Equal signs are required
where shown and cannot be surrounded by blanks.  They separate the
name of an option (such as START) from the option's value (such as
7/7/90).


THE ..SUBMIT COMMAND (enters a job into the system)

The ..SUBMIT command enters your job into the SUBMIT system.  To use
the ..SUBMIT command, you must have the JCL for the job in your
active file, as if you were going to issue a "RUN" command to submit
the job through  WYLBUR.  Your job must include a JOB statement with
a valid job name.  You must later use this name when you examine or
alter your job in the SUBMIT system via the commands explained
below.

You may want to specify options after the ..SUBMIT command to
control the selection of the job for submission.  If you specify no
options, the job is placed in the system but will not be run
automatically.  With the JCL in your active file, issue the ..SUBMIT
command:

    -> ..SUBMIT [options separated by blanks]

 where the options are:                     for example:

 START=<date for first run>                 START=3/07/90
 DATE=<date(s) in yr for running job>       DATE=1/01,4/01,7/01,10/01
 DAY=<day(s) of week for running job>       DAY=TUESDAY,THURSDAY
 DD=<day(s) of month for running job>       DD=15,23
 SKIP=<# of days until next run>            SKIP=7
 FIRST/LAST if job is to be run on          FIRST
            first or last day of month

For example:

    -> ..submit start=3/22/90 skip=4 first

will run the job beginning on the date specified in START, then
every fourth day afterwards, as well as on the first day of every
month.

You can specify a time of day for submission or schedule a job so
that it follows another in a job network by including a /*JOBPARM
START= statement as part of the program.

The job must have a job name specified on the JOB statement and the
START date specified must be at least one day past the current date.
Equal signs are required where shown.  If there is any coincidence
in criteria (e.g., if you specify both FIRST and DAY=TUESDAY, and
the first day of the month happens to be a Tuesday), only one job is
submitted on a given day.  A job will always run on the START date
specified, and will thereafter run whenever any of the SUBMIT
criteria are satisfied.

Another example:

    -> ..submit start=4/01/90 date=1/01,4/01,7/01,10/01

will run the job beginning April 1, 1990, and will run it every
three  months thereafter.  In this way, you could produce a
quarterly report automatically.

The following example shows the use of the SUBMIT system in detail:

    COMMAND> call spires
    -> collect
          1.    > //DSNLIST   JOB
          2.    > //   EXEC DISKLOOK
          3.    > ***  (BREAK key depressed)
    -> ..submit start=7/27/90 day=monday

The session shown above will submit a job called DSNLIST to provide
a user with a list of all data sets residing on PUB volumes and
SCR002 for his or her account.  The job will be run after midnight
every Monday morning, beginning Friday morning, July 27, 1990.

If you specify only the START option, the job will be run only on
the one day specified.  If you do not specify any of the options,
the job will not be run unless you issue the ..RUN or ..RESUBMIT
commands, explained later.


THE ..RUN COMMAND (forces the system to run a job)

The ..RUN command forces the job named to be run after midnight of
the day you issue the command and does not alter any options set by
SUBMIT.  To invoke ..RUN, issue the command:

    -> ..RUN <job name>

The ..RUN command can be used any time you want a job to be run on
a day that would not be selected automatically.


THE ..RESUBMIT COMMAND (changes criteria for submission, or
                        stops a job from running)

The ..RESUBMIT command has the same options as ..SUBMIT; it clears
all options previously specified and allows you to specify new ones.
As with  ..SUBMIT, you must specify an appropriate START date if you
want the job to run.  The command is issued as:

    -> ..RESUBMIT <job name> [options separated by blanks]

Essentially, the difference between ..SUBMIT  and ..RESUBMIT  is
that ..RESUBMIT assumes that the job has already been scheduled with
a previous ..SUBMIT.  Thus, you must specify a job name on
the ..RESUBMIT command.

To stop the job for an indefinite period, use the ..RESUBMIT
command, not specifying any options.  Then use ..RESUBMIT at a later
date to reestablish any options.


THE ..REMOVE COMMAND (removes a job from the SUBMIT system)

To permanently remove a job, issue the command:

    -> ..REMOVE <job name>


THE ..REPLACE COMMAND (alters a job already in the SUBMIT system)

To alter any statements in a job already in the SUBMIT system,
except the job name and account on the job card, use the ..REPLACE
command:

     -> ..REPLACE <job name> [JOBCARD|CARD]

Either the JOB statement (JOBCARD) or the rest of the job stream
(CARD) will be placed in your active file.  CARD is the assumed
option.  Make any modifications, then type CONTINUE XEQ to have the
changes recorded.

To alter the job name, it is necessary to REPLACE the job, add a new
job card with the new job name at the beginning of the WYLBUR active
file, SUBMIT the new job rather than type CONTINUE XEQ, and finally,
REMOVE the old job.  To change the account, you must REPLACE the
job, save the job on disk, logon to the new account, and after
entering the SUBMIT environment again, bring the job into your
active file and use the SUBMIT command.


THE ..DISPLAY COMMAND (examines JCL of a job in the SUBMIT system)

To examine JCL you entered via the ..SUBMIT command, use
the ..DISPLAY command:

    -> ..DISPLAY <job name> [IN ACTIVE [CLEAR|CONTINUE]]

To place the JCL in your active file, specify the IN ACTIVE option.
The CLEAR option clears your active file before displaying the job.
CONTINUE allows you to append the job control statements to the end
of your active file without clearing it.


THE ..VERIFY COMMAND (examines options in effect for a job)

To see what options are in effect for a particular job, use
the ..VERIFY command as follows:

    -> ..VERIFY <job name>

If you have used the SKIP option on SUBMIT, the ..VERIFY command
will also tell you how many days will elapse before the next run.
Note that a job could run before these days have passed if options
other than SKIP were specified.


THE ..LOCATE COMMAND (displays job names you have in the system)

To display or locate all job names under your account in the file
system, issue the ..LOCATE command:

    -> ..LOCATE

A list of all jobs submitted under your account will be displayed.
This is helpful if you have forgotten a job name and wish to use any
of the commands requiring that the job name be specified.


THE EXIT COMMAND (to exit SUBMIT and SPIRES)

To leave SPIRES (and SUBMIT), type EXIT.  (Do not precede it
by '..').

SUMMARY

 ..SUBMIT [options]                  - enter a job into the system
 ..RUN <job name>                    - force a job to run
 ..RESUBMIT <job name> [options]     - change submission criteria
 ..REMOVE <job name>                 - remove a job from the system
 ..REPLACE <job name>[JOBCARD|CARD]  - alter an entered job
 ..DISPLAY <job name>[IN ACTIVE[CLEAR|CONTINUE]]  - examine an
                                                    entered job
 ..VERIFY <job name>                 - examine options of an entered
                                       job
 ..LOCATE                            - list names of all your
                                       entered jobs
