DOC#TESTWYL PUBLIC
Stanford Data Center                        Latest update:  01/02/92
Stanford University                         Length:        476 lines

This online file contains items about recent changes or additions to
the TESTWYL system.  TESTWYL is a development version of WYLBUR,
available to any user of the Stanford Data Center.  The features
described in this file are developmental and therefore subject to
change without notice.

Please report any problems with TESTWYL by sending mail to GG.MPD
and GG.SLP.

When changes are installed in production WYLBUR, the documentation
will be moved from DOC#TESTWYL to DOC#WYLBUR PUBLIC.  The latest
item can be found at line 24 forward.

To get a copy of the entire file:  PRINT

To list all the item titles for a table of contents:  LIST '*' 1
To find a particular topic: LIST 'topic'


*06/04/95  Dataset commands changed to use WINGS

These WYLBUR commands have been re-implemented to use the WINGS MVS
file system interface:

     ALLOCATE
     OSRENAME
     SCRATCH
     SHOW CATALOG
     SHOW DIRECTORY
     SHOW DSNAMES

In addition, the DSNINFO and DSNVERIFY Extended Exec functions now
use WINGS.

The changed commands will continue to work as before, although there
have been minor changes to the messages issued by these commands.

The behavior of SHOW DSNAMES has been changed.  When specified
without a volume, a list of all your datasets will be produced (by
searching the system catalog), rather than a list of just the
datasets on your default volume.  You can still obtain a list of your
datasets on a particular volume by using SHOW DSNAMES ON <volume>.
There is a change in the message output of SHOW DSNAMES without a
volume:  Previously, the first line would indicate the volume being
searched; now, this line does not appear (because no volume is being
searched).

The DSNINFO function now returns additional information in fields that
previously were "reserved":

   columns 115/122   have the device type information (UCBTYPE) for
                     the disk on which the dataset resides.
   columns 124/133   have the disk model number (e.g. "3380") for the
                     disk on which the dataset resides.
   columns 135/142   space used, in K bytes (note:  this is to the
                     nearest K byte so is more exact than the "tracks
                     used" figure)
   columns 144/151   space allocated, in K bytes (will always be a
                     multiple of the track length)

These characters appear at the end of the returned value and do not
affect programs that work with values based on column position.

Changes to the SHOW DIRECTORY command

Beginning in mid-1994, we started keeping additional information in
the directory entries of WYLBUR libraries:  we now record when a
member is created separately from when it is updated, so it is
possible to display both the create date and the last update date for
library members.  We are changing the format of the information
displayed by SHOW DIRECTORY ALL to include this information, and have
also reformatted the date fields to include full 4-digit years.  The
old and new formats are compared below.

Since many EXEC files depend on the format of this display, we have
added the NEW and OLD options to SHOW DIRECTORY ALL.  The OLD option
is the default in this new version of WYLBUR; you can use the NEW
option to get the improved display now.  On July 15, 1995, we will
change the default to NEW; therefore, any EXEC files that are
sensitive to this format should be modified before then, either to
use the new format or to include the OLD option.

Comparison of the old and new formats -- column rulers included for
reference

--- OLD format ---

Command> show directory all
Directory of LIB on INT001

....v....1....v....2....v....3....v....4....v....5....v....6....v....7....v....8
Member     Creation Date  Creator   Title
BATWYL    16:21 01/05/88  GQ.JAN    batwyl jcl
DEFS      08:06 10/03/94  GQ.JAN    defined commands executed at logon
LOGON     18:18 04/16/95  GQ.JAN
MAIL      11:06 06/04/90  GQ.JAN
MYLOGON   08:56 03/23/93  GQ.JAN    old logon file
SEMI      09:34 08/14/90  GQ.JAN    exec that cleans up semicolons
TEST      22:11 02/13/95  GQ.JAN    test file


--- NEW format ---

TESTWYL> show directory all new
Directory of WYL.GQ.JAN.LIB

....v....1....v....2....v....3....v....4....v....5....v....6....v....7....v....8
Member     Created    Last Updated    UserID     Title
BATWYL      ----    1988/01/05 16:21  GQ.JAN   batwyl jcl
DEFS     1994/09/17 1994/10/03 08:06  GQ.JAN   defined commands executed at logon
LOGON       ----    1995/04/16 18:18  GQ.JAN
MAIL        ----    1990/06/04 11:06  GQ.JAN
MYLOGON     ----    1993/03/23 08:56  GQ.JAN   old logon file
SEMI        ----    1990/08/14 09:34  GQ.JAN   exec that cleans up semicolons
TEST     1995/02/03 1995/02/13 22:11  GQ.JAN   test file



Specific changes:

    * The display title has changed to show the full library name
      (i.e.,  "Directory of LIB on INT001" now displays as "Directory
      of WYL.GQ.JAN.LIB") and the volume information is no longer
      listed

    * The column "Created" (the date the file was created) has been
      added.  This column lists the file creation date immediately
      after the file name.  (This information is not available for
      files created before 1994.) The date is reported in the new
      format:  YYYY/MM/DD.

    * The "Last Updated" column (which has been incorrectly titled
      "Creation Date") now displays information in the format:
      YYYY/MM/DD  HH:MM.

      Note that WYLBUR currently displays the last updated
      information in the format HH:MM  MM/DD/YY.  That is, the date
      information appears *after* time information.

    * The column label that identifies who last updated a file has
      been renamed from "Creator" to "UserID" (there is no record of
      who created the member, only who last changed it).  Note that
      the values displayed in this column are provided by the
      processor used to modify a file and are therefore displayed
      either in Wylbur format (GG.UUU) or in TSO format (GG$UUU).
      The userid field is 8 characters; although the last two are
      usually blank, some processes store full 8-character fields
      here.

    * There is one less blank between USERID and TITLE.

    * Files created by ISPF (a TSO editor) will have some ISPF data
      displayed in the "Title" field.

The result of all these changes is that the SHOW DIRECTORY ALL
command now displays more information and supports changes necessary
to handle dates beyond 2000.  Programs that need to sort directory
information by date/time are simplified because the necessary sort
fields are now contiguous and in order of significance.


*01/02/92  NOVERIFY Option on PICK Command

An exec command cannot reliably pick a "cleared" Active file.
However, a new NOVERIFY option has been added to the PICK command
to not bother prompting the user if the Active file selected is
cleared.  The following code segment illustrates this:

         oldactno = actno
         ...
         try quietly pick &(oldactno) noverify
         if (actno ne oldactno) begin
            comment Your old Active file is not available.
         end


*12/27/91  New SHOW USERIDS and SHOW ACCOUNTS Commands

There are two new commands which provide the two forms of the SHOW
USERS response that have become popular in the test and production
versions of Wylbur.  The commands are:

         show userids
         show accounts

The SHOW USERIDS command will display logged on users with their
userids if possible.  The SHOW ACCOUNTS command will display the
logged on users with their accounts.

Currently, in TESTWYL, the SHOW USERS command response is the same
as the SHOW USERIDS command response.


*12/19/91  ID changed to USERID

The two articles below have been revised to reflect the fact that
the keyword "ID" has been changed to "USERID".


*12/19/91  New SHOW USERID Command (REVISED)

The SHOW USERID command can be used to display your userid.


*12/06/91  New Functions for Userid Support (USERID)

Several new variables and functions have been added to WYLBUR as
part of the userid support.  They are:

USERID         Returns the value of your userid or the null string
               if you do not have a userid.

USERID_LIST    Returns a semi-colon separated list of your primary
               userid followed by any aliases you might have.

GET_ACCOUNT('string')
               Returns the account associated with this userid.
               If you pass an account as an argument, then this
               function will return that account.  If you pass
               an unknown userid then this function returns the
               null string.

                    > show value get_account('gg.jdn')
                    'GG.JDN'
                    > show value get_account('j.nisbet')
                    'GG.JDN'
                    > show value get_account('niz')
                    'GG.JDN'
                    > show value get_account('unknown_id')
                    ''

GET_USERID('string')
               Returns the primary userid associated with an
               account. If you pass a userid as an argument, then
               this function will return the primary userid.  For
               example:

                    > show value get_userid('gg.jdn')
                    'J.Nisbet'
                    > show value get_userid('j.nisbet')
                    'J.Nisbet'
                    > show value get_userid('niz')
                    'J.Nisbet'
                    > show value get_userid('unknown_id')
                    ''

GET_USERID_LIST('string')
               Returns the primary userid and any aliases that might
               exist as a semi-colon separated list.

                    > show value get_userid('gg.jdn')
                    'J.Nisbet;Niz'


*12/05/91  TO Command Changed

When sending a TO message to a user that is logged on multiple
times, the TO command used to prompt the user to select which
session was to get the message.  This happened even if only one
session was accepting messages.  With the increased usage of
multiple sessions this implementation has become ineffective.

The new TO command will send a message to all the sessions with the
account specified, skipping the sessions which have NOCOMM set.

Although this is a change, we expect the negative impact to be
minimal.  If you have concerns about this change send mail to
GG.JDN.


*11/06/91  Extended Exec Programming With ESCAPE Characters

This is not a change to WYLBUR, it is a piece of information for
Extended EXEC programmers that needs to be documented in more
places.

The old escape and skip characters are always saved on entry and
restored when the Extended EXEC completes.

Every Extended EXEC starts with ampersand ('&') being the current
escape character and NO skip character.  Extended EXEC programmers
should rarely need to use the SET ESCAPE or SET SKIP commands.  If a
SET ESCAPE or SET SKIP command is issued from within an Extended
EXEC, it will change the currently active escape or skip character
which only lasts for the duration of that EXEC.


*06/01/91  "SET" Option Now Default on SAVE Command

SET is now the default option on the SAVE command.

Though this is a non-transparent change, it makes the system work in
the way most people expect it to work.  Consider the following
example:

    USE MEMO.JANUARY CLEAR
    SAVE MEMO.FEBRUARY
    <make changes>
    SAVE * REPLACE

Under the old system, MEMO.JANUARY was replaced by the changed data
in the active file.  Under the new system, when the SAVE * REPLACE
command is EXECuted, MEMO.FEBRUARY is replaced.  This is because the
SAVE MEMO.FEBRUARY command now changes the "PREFIX" that SAVE * uses
for a dataset name.

The changes make WYLBUR operate in a way that is consistent with the
way micro applications work, as well.  If you do a SAVE AS... on the
Macintosh, followed by a SAVE, the NEW name is used for the SAVE.

You have always been able to cause the SAVE command to set the
prefix by using the SET option.  But the SET option, until now, was
not the default.

You may now use the NOSET option, if you wish the SAVE command NOT
to change the prefix.

*04/09/91  SET AUTO NOSTATISTICS Command Added

A new command:

         SET AUTO STATISTICS|NOSTATISTICS

has been added which will turn on or off detailed logoff statistics.
The "NOSTATISTICS" mode is to just give a single line logoff message
stating how long the session lasted.

The SHOW AUTO command will display the current setting.


*03/29/91  New "TRANSPARENT ASCII" Option on USE/SAVE

The default transparent upload format is EBCDIC with vertical bar
guard characters.  However, WYLBUR will also accept (and generate)
ASCII transparent data with an @-sign as the guard character.
Sometimes users want to process the data in its ASCII format
instead of having it translated to EBCDIC.  The available options
are:

        [TRANSPARENT [ASCII|EBCDIC]]

for example:

         use c:filename transparent ascii

This is a somewhat technical option, it is very unlikely that an
end-user will ever use this option directly.  However, it might very
well be imbedded in an EXEC.


*03/05/91  New SHOW MSTATUS Command

A new SHOW MSTATUS command has been added to display information
(such as the mail message; and mail forwarding) for the specified
account).  You do not need to provide the password of the account
whose mail status information is being displayed.  The command as
described below is currently only available in TESTWYL (there is an
older version of the SHOW MSTATUS command which still requires a
password and does not provide as much information in the production
version of WYLBUR).

The command is convenient for consultants who want to check on the
status of another user's mailbox without sending that user test
mail.  The command syntax is:

         SHOW MSTATUS [gg.uuu]

For example:

         > show mstatus gg.rgr
         Mailbox status for GG.RGR "Ron Roberts":
           No mail message is set.
           New mail is being forwarded to roberts@jessica
           SHOW MAIL options: ATTN
           Status flags: NOMAIL NOKEPT NODEFQ


*11/20/90  SHOW SCOST Change

The formatting changed a bit on SHOW SCOST to improve readability.
Also, remember you can type "SHOW SCOST <milten-lineno>".


*07/19/90  New VISTA subsystem supports the VLOGON command

                  ***  EXPERIMENTAL FACILITY  ***
             ***  SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE  ***

The purpose of the VISTA subsystem is to allow a WYLBUR users to
"Logon" to standard IBM applications such as TSO and CICS from any
WYLBUR terminal.

Any terminal which is able to use the WYLBUR VIEW command or PRISM
may use this command.

The VISTA subsystem implements the commands:

         VLOGON
         VGO
         VATTN
         VLOGOFF

VISTA simulates an IBM 3278/79 Model 2 terminal.  3270 "Extended
Attributes" and 7-colors are simulated.  Multiple character set
selection is supported, but not the ability to load a character set.

This processor is not meant to be a perfect simulation of a 3270
terminal.  It is the byproduct of the terminal facilities of WYLBUR.
The same keyboard sequences for PF keys, character insert and
character delete are used as with other WYLBUR commands.

The following keyboard sequences are used for specific 3270 actions:

   RETURN         Enter    <-- There is no newline function.

   ESC I          Insert (toggle)

   TAB            TAB
   ESC TAB        BACKTAB

   ESC C          Clear
   ESC A          Attn
   ESC S          PA1      <--  these keys are mnemonic by
   ESC D          PA2      <--  position on the keyboard, rather
   ESC F          PA3      <--  than by the letter of the key.

   ESC 1          PF1
   ...            ...
   ESC 9          PF9
   ESC =10        PF10
   ...            ...
   ESC =39        PF39


*07/19/90  WYLBUR will now support "gg$uuu" in addition to "gg.uuu"

WYLBUR will now support the account format "gg$uuu" as an alternate
form of the "gg.uuu" account.  This is to provide consistency for
TSO users which can only use the "gg$uuu" account format.

The account form "uuu$gg" is also still supported, however it has
been obsolete for some time.


*06/08/90  Generating Macintosh Dialogs from WYLBUR

A new feature in MacSamson and TESTWYL will allow an EXEC file or
SPIRES protocol to open a simple Macintosh "dialog" box.  The
original motivation was to provide a more secure way of prompting
for password and PIN, but the capability can be used more generally.

If you are using a fairly recent MacSamson, try issuing the
following command from TESTWYL:

===>     xcall dialog.demo public

-----

The DIALOG.DEMO EXEC demonstrates how to use the new SYSCALL DIALOG
and SAM_DIALOG variable in TESTWYL.  What follows is a description
of the options (this is subject to change as we refine things).

The general form of the SYSCALL is:

         syscall dialog(type,
                        message,
                        prompt,
                        response,
                        returned-text,
                        return-code-string)

In addition, there is a new EXEC variable called SAM_DIALOG which
allows an EXEC to determine if Samson can support the DIALOG call.
SAM_DIALOG is a version number of Samson's dialog handler.  If it is
greater than or equal to 2, then it will support everything
described above.  This might be used in an EXEC file as follows:

     if (sam_dialog lt 2) begin    ; Regular terminal mode...
        write 'Old style dialog...'
        retstr = input('What is your name? ', 'attn')
        retrc = ioresult
     end
     else begin                    ; Samson dialog...
        default = name
        retstr = ''
        retrc = ''
        syscall dialog('prompt', 'Enter your name', '', \
           default, retstr, retrc)
        end

        if (retrc ne 'OK') begin
           write 'EXEC file stopped.'
           xreturn
        end

This feature is experimental and is only available with the test
version of MacSamson and TESTWYL.  Please send comments to GG.JDN
and GG.DAR.


*06/01/90  NEW FTP COMMAND

We have installed Iowa State's FTP command (an Extended EXEC) which
provides the often familiar Unix FTP program interface for file
transfer.

The FTP command uses WYLBUR's underlying "USE/SAVE file ON hostname"
commands to implement these functions.  In particular, the multiple
file transfer commands, mget and mput, are very handy.


*02/21/90  VIEW COMMAND EXTENSION

A new extension allows you to redefine "ESC x" key sequences to
EXECute a WYLBUR command instead of the default action.  When the
user types "ESC x", the VIEW command will now first check the EXEC
file session variable:

         SES.SYSVIEW_x

where "x" is the key code for a command.  For example, if you had
the commands in your LOGON file:

         ses.sysview_a = 'write "ESC-A -- Align command blocked";'
         ses.sysview_z = 'write "ESC-Z -- Justify command blocked";'

then the ESC-A and ESC-Z commands would write out an error message
instead of re-aligning a paragraph.


*02/19/90  NEW "CTIME" COMMAND PREFIX

Adding this prefix to a command will return elapsed and CPU time
used for that command.  For example:

   Command> ctime show xdate
   Mon, 19 Feb 90 17:57:51 PST
   Timing information: 0.02 seconds (0.008 WYLBUR CPU, 0 ORVYL CPU)

Note that the CTIME command prefix will not work on all commands (if
it won't work, you will get a message to that effect).


*01/19/90  NEW CDUMP COMMAND

There is a new command prefix called CDUMP which tells WYLBUR to put
the message response for the command that follows in the Active
file.  It performs the same operation as the "collect-options" on
many commands.  For example:

      > cdump show directory  ; this is the same as "dump directory"

      > cdump locate all account gg.jdn

Not all commands will accept the CDUMP prefix.  Notably, ORVYL
commands (such as SHOW FILES) and SPIRES commands cannot accept the
CDUMP prefix.  These are the same restrictions as the TRY and QUIET
command prefixes have.


*07/30/89  NEW USERID SUPPORT

New support for user defined userids has been added to TESTWYL.  A
userid is a symbolic account name that can be used in place of the
"gg.uuu" account.  This is an upward compatible change.  The account
will continue to be displayed, unless a userid has been set.

Because the userid support is still being tested, the command to add
a userid has been limited to people who want to experiment with the
facility.  In a few weeks the complete documentation of how userids
work (and how you can set a userid) will be added to this
documentation.  If you want to try it out before then, send mail to
GG.JDN with the userid you would like.


*04/27/89  NEW FUNCTIONS TO GET COMPONENT CHARGES

New functions have been added to let EXEC files get at "component"
resource use.  They are probably not of interest to most users.

In addition to the existing variables:

         WYLBUR_CPU   --  total WYLBUR CPU seconds
         WYLBUR_IO    --  total WYLBUR I/Os
         ORVYL_CPU    --  total ORVYL CPU seconds
         ORVYL_IO     --  total ORVYL I/Os

There are four new functions (note that the names must end with a
trailing underline):

 WYLBUR_CPU_('comp name') -- total WYLBUR CPU for components with
                             this stem.
 WYLBUR_IO_('comp name')  -- total WYLBUR I/Os for component with
                             this stem.
 ORVVL_CPU_('comp name')  -- total ORVYL CPU for component with this
                             stem.
 ORVYL_IO_('comp name')   -- total ORVYL I/Os for component with
                             this stem.

For example:

  orvcpu = ORVYL_CPU_('PRISM_')
         Will give the sum of all the CPU time used by all
         components which begin with "PRISM_".

  show value ORVYL_CPU_('GENERAL ')
         Will give the sum of all "GENERAL" components; note
         the trailing space which forces an exact match.

One more little thing.  If you ask specify "*" as the component name
then you will get JUST the current component charges.  For example:

  wiocount = WYLBUR_IO_('*')
         Will return just the WYLBUR I/Os for the current component.
