DOC#WYLBUR PUBLIC                           Document number:      79
Stanford Data Center                        Latest update:  02/07/96
Stanford University

This online file contains items about recent changes or additions to
the WYLBUR system.  Older changes are listed in DOC#OLDWYL PUBLIC.

The online HELP facility can be used to obtain information on all
WYLBUR commands.  Type HELP for a description of how to use the HELP
facility.  The WYLBUR Reference Manual, January 1987 (#234) can be
obtained online by issuing the command:

   PRINT FROM WYLMAN PUBLIC

The following is a list of current WYLBUR documentation:

     WYLBUR Overview (#417)
     WYLBUR User's Guide (#424)
     WYLBUR Reference Manual (#234)
     WYLBUR EXEC File Manual (#569)
     WYLBUR Reference Card (#232)
     Page WYLBUR Reference Card (#667)
     WYLBUR Libraries (#60)
     Using Electronic Mail on Forsythe (#889)
     How to LOGON and LOGOFF (#257)
     Online Sources of Help and Information (#516)
     How to Set Up a Logon EXEC File (#8)
     Introduction to Terminals and Communication Services at
        Forsythe Hall (#319)

Most documents are available through the PUBLISH command; others
are available by contacting the CLASS Support Center.

Items will not be purged from this file until they are included in
permanent documentation.  The latest item can be found at line 45
forward.

To get a copy of the entire file:  PRINT

To list all the item titles for a table of contents:  LIST '*' 1
To find a particular topic: LIST 'topic'


*02/07/96  SHOW DIR ALL defaults to NEW format

The default output format for SHOW DIRECTORY ALL became the NEW
format as opposed to the OLD format display on February 10, 1996.
For further information, see the section titled "Changes to the SHOW
DIRECTORY command" later in this document. This change was
originally scheduled to take place on July 15th, 1995 as that
article indicates. It was delayed until now.

*07/22/95  Dataset commands changed to use WINGS

These WYLBUR commands have been re-implemented to use the WINGS MVS
file system interface:

     ALLOCATE
     OSRENAME
     SCRATCH
     SHOW CATALOG
     SHOW DIRECTORY
     SHOW DSNAMES

In addition, the DSNINFO and DSNVERIFY Extended Exec functions now
use WINGS.

The changed commands will continue to work as before, although there
have been minor changes to the messages issued by these commands.

The behavior of SHOW DSNAMES has been changed.  When specified
without a volume, a list of all your datasets will be produced (by
searching the system catalog), rather than a list of just the
datasets on your default volume.  You can still obtain a list of your
datasets on a particular volume by using SHOW DSNAMES ON <volume>.
There is a change in the message output of SHOW DSNAMES without a
volume:  Previously, the first line would indicate the volume being
searched; now, this line does not appear (because no volume is being
searched).

The DSNINFO function now returns additional information in fields that
previously were "reserved":

   columns 115/122   have the device type information (UCBTYPE) for
                     the disk on which the dataset resides.
   columns 124/133   have the disk model number (e.g. "3380") for the
                     disk on which the dataset resides.
   columns 135/142   space used, in K bytes (note:  this is to the
                     nearest K byte so is more exact than the "tracks
                     used" figure)
   columns 144/151   space allocated, in K bytes (will always be a
                     multiple of the track length)

These characters appear at the end of the returned value and do not
affect programs that work with values based on column position.

Changes to the SHOW DIRECTORY command

Beginning in mid-1994, we started keeping additional information in
the directory entries of WYLBUR libraries:  we now record when a
member is created separately from when it is updated, so it is
possible to display both the create date and the last update date for
library members.  We are changing the format of the information
displayed by SHOW DIRECTORY ALL to include this information, and have
also reformatted the date fields to include full 4-digit years.  The
old and new formats are compared below.

Since many EXEC files depend on the format of this display, we have
added the NEW and OLD options to SHOW DIRECTORY ALL.  The OLD option
is the default in this new version of WYLBUR; you can use the NEW
option to get the improved display now.  On July 15, 1995, we will
change the default to NEW; therefore, any EXEC files that are
sensitive to this format should be modified before then, either to
use the new format or to include the OLD option.

Comparison of the old and new formats -- column rulers included for
reference

--- OLD format ---

Command> show directory all
Directory of LIB on INT001

....v....1....v....2....v....3....v....4....v....5....v....6....v....7....v....8
Member     Creation Date  Creator   Title
BATWYL    16:21 01/05/88  GQ.JAN    batwyl jcl
DEFS      08:06 10/03/94  GQ.JAN    defined commands executed at logon
LOGON     18:18 04/16/95  GQ.JAN
MAIL      11:06 06/04/90  GQ.JAN
MYLOGON   08:56 03/23/93  GQ.JAN    old logon file
SEMI      09:34 08/14/90  GQ.JAN    exec that cleans up semicolons
TEST      22:11 02/13/95  GQ.JAN    test file


--- NEW format ---

TESTWYL> show directory all new
Directory of WYL.GQ.JAN.LIB

....v....1....v....2....v....3....v....4....v....5....v....6....v....7....v....8
Member     Created    Last Updated    UserID     Title
BATWYL      ----    1988/01/05 16:21  GQ.JAN   batwyl jcl
DEFS     1994/09/17 1994/10/03 08:06  GQ.JAN   defined commands executed at logon
LOGON       ----    1995/04/16 18:18  GQ.JAN
MAIL        ----    1990/06/04 11:06  GQ.JAN
MYLOGON     ----    1993/03/23 08:56  GQ.JAN   old logon file
SEMI        ----    1990/08/14 09:34  GQ.JAN   exec that cleans up semicolons
TEST     1995/02/03 1995/02/13 22:11  GQ.JAN   test file



Specific changes:

    * The display title has changed to show the full library name
      (i.e.,  "Directory of LIB on INT001" now displays as "Directory
      of WYL.GQ.JAN.LIB") and the volume information is no longer
      listed

    * The column "Created" (the date the file was created) has been
      added.  This column lists the file creation date immediately
      after the file name.  (This information is not available for
      files created before 1994.) The date is reported in the new
      format:  YYYY/MM/DD.

    * The "Last Updated" column (which has been incorrectly titled
      "Creation Date") now displays information in the format:
      YYYY/MM/DD  HH:MM.

      Note that WYLBUR currently displays the last updated
      information in the format HH:MM  MM/DD/YY.  That is, the date
      information appears *after* time information.

    * The column label that identifies who last updated a file has
      been renamed from "Creator" to "UserID" (there is no record of
      who created the member, only who last changed it).  Note that
      the values displayed in this column are provided by the
      processor used to modify a file and are therefore displayed
      either in Wylbur format (GG.UUU) or in TSO format (GG$UUU).
      The userid field is 8 characters; although the last two are
      usually blank, some processes store full 8-character fields
      here.

    * There is one less blank between USERID and TITLE.

    * Files created by ISPF (a TSO editor) will have some ISPF data
      displayed in the "Title" field.

The result of all these changes is that the SHOW DIRECTORY ALL
command now displays more information and supports changes necessary
to handle dates beyond 2000.  Programs that need to sort directory
information by date/time are simplified because the necessary sort
fields are now contiguous and in order of significance.


*11/23/93  New CC Option on MAIL Command Puts CC in Network Headers

You can add a CC list to a MAIL command in WYLBUR using the new CC
option:

   MAIL TO address-list CC address-list

CC recipients on Forsythe receive no indication that they are on the
CC list rather than regular "TO" recipients.  However, CC recipients
on other computers will receive the mail with the appropriate
addresses shown in the "To:" and "cc:" lines of the network header.
If the address list includes public distribution list names, those
names will appear rather than all the addresses in the lists.

EMS does not and for the moment cannot use the CC option, so mail
sent via EMS will not include "cc:" lines in the network header.


*01/02/92  New ERRORCMD command

The ERRORCMD (or ERRCMD) command can be used to invoke an error
condition in an xproc.  The syntax matches the error controls
available for "xreturn error":

      errorcmd, errid=<error id>, errmsg='<error message>'

You would use this command in an xproc when you wished to not only
signal an error, which XRETURN alone can do, but also invoke the
xproc's ON ERROR condition which might have other error processing.


*07/23/91  "SET" Option Now Default on SAVE Command

As of July 27, SET will be the default option on the SAVE command.

Though this is a non-transparent change, it makes the system work in
the way most people expect it to work.  Consider the following
example:

    USE MEMO.JANUARY CLEAR
    SAVE MEMO.FEBRUARY
    <make changes>
    SAVE * REPLACE

Under the old system, MEMO.JANUARY was replaced by the changed data
in the active file.  Under the new system, when the SAVE * REPLACE
command is executed, MEMO.FEBRUARY is replaced.  This is because the
SAVE MEMO.FEBRUARY command now changes the "PREFIX" that SAVE * uses
for a dataset name.

This may affect you if you use the "*" option on WYLBUR commands when
it means "the current data set", as in USE *, SAVE *, SCRATCH *, LIST
FROM *, etc.

The changes make Wylbur operate in a way that is consistent with the
way micro applications work, as well.  If you do a SAVE AS... on the
Macintosh, followed by a SAVE, the NEW name is used for the SAVE.

You have always been able to cause the SAVE command to set the
prefix by using the SET option.  But the SET option, until now, was
not the default.

You may now use the NOSET option, if you wish the SAVE command NOT
to change the prefix.

*03/28/91  New PRTFORMS option on SET OUTPUT command

The SET OUTPUT command allows you to set the permanent default
destination, bin or forms code used in printing output.  A new
PRTFORMS option has been added that allows you to set a forms code
default for WYLBUR printing that is different from your default for
batch job output.

There are now two options on the SET OUTPUT command for setting a
default forms code for your account:

   SET OUTPUT FORMS=ffff
   SET OUTPUT PRTFORMS=ffff

SET OUTPUT FORMS sets a default forms code that applies to any
output created under your account, whether it is created by a batch
job or by printing from WYLBUR.

SET OUTPUT PRTFORMS is a new option that sets an alternate default
forms code that applies to output generated by printing from WYLBUR.

Here is an example of how the two options might be used:

  SET OUTPUT  FORMS=GBAR  PRTFORMS=3HOL

If you have these defaults set then your batch job output will have
a default forms code of GBAR, while output created by printing from
WYLBUR will have a default forms code of 3HOL.

Like the FORMS default, the PRTFORMS default is applied only when no
other forms code has been specified.  If you are printing from EMS
and specify a forms code in your EMS SETUP, this forms will override
your SET OUTPUT default.

Type HELP SET OUTPUT for syntax details.


*03/28/91  GBAR and 1181 forms on the LaserJet and LaserWriter

Setting the PRTFORMS option for your account has another effect:  it
acts as a switch to activate support for 1181 and GBAR forms
printing on local laser printers for output you create from WYLBUR.
This applies to output created from both WYLBUR and TESTWYL, though
currently you can only set the PRTFORMS option from TESTWYL.

Currently the system ignores the forms code when printing WYLBUR
output on local printers.  After you have set a PRTFORMS default for
your account, any GBAR or 1181 output you print from WYLBUR to a
LaserWriter or LaserJet printer will be printed in landscape mode
with a gray-bar pattern.  This applies to all LaserJet models except
the original basic LaserJet, which doesn't support gray-scale
printing; on this model the system will print 1181 and GBAR output
in landscape mode without any gray-bar pattern.

You can use the SHOW OUTPUT command to see what defaults are
currently set for your account.  If you set a PRTFORMS default for
your account and find that you are getting output in gray-bar format
in unexpected situations you can use SET OUTPUT NOPRTFORMS to clear
the PRTFORMS option.


*11/27/90  BATWYL IMPROVEMENT

When you cancel a BATWYL job, you will no longer loose the last few
lines of output.  The BATWYL program will explicitly close the
SYSPRINT file in a cancel exit so that all lines written from the
session get written to the output file.


*11/06/90  NEW CHSTR FUNCTION

A new exec file function has been added to change one string to
another in a variable.  The syntax is:

        chstr('original string', 'old text', 'new text')

For example, the command:

        show value chstr('this old dog', 'old', 'little')

will give the response:

        'this little dog'


*11/06/90  BETTER SUPPORT FOR VIEWING NON-PRINTING CHARACTERS

If you try to VIEW a file with non-printing characters in it, the
VIEW command will now display those special characters as a "blotch"
(filled in box) character.

You still can not directly modify lines with non-printing characters
in them with the VIEW command, but at least it won't destroy the
formatting of the screen any more.


*10/01/90  MINOR CHANGE TO BACKSLASH IN EXTENDED EXECS

If an extended exec line ends with two backslash characters it is
treated as if it ends with one real backslash (and not a continued
line).

For example:

        comment this is a continued \
            line
        a = 1
        ...

and...

        comment this is a line ending with a backslash \\
        a = 1
        ...


*08/23/90  YESNO FUNCTION EXTENDED

The WYLBUR exec file YESNO() function now allows you to specify HELP
as one of the allowable answers.  For example, the exec file  line:

         yn = yesno('OK to run jobs', 'yes no help')

will prompt the user:

         OK to run jobs (Yes/No)?

if the user answers with ? or "HELP" then the result of the YESNO
function will be HELP.


*08/17/90  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON SHOW LINE/SHOW LINES

When you are logged on via SUNet, the old SHOW LINE information only
displayed "ELF-nnnn".  The new ELF software provides MILTEN with
additional information, and that is now displayed in the SHOW
LINE/SHOW LINES response.  For example, in this SHOW LINE response:

  Line Account  User name            Program  Port
    53 GG.JDN   Jim Nisbet           TESTWYL  ELF1-2208 [MICRONIZ]

"MICRONIZ" is the host name of the workstation which connected to
Forsythe.  This is useful information which helps physically locate
the source of the connection to Forsythe (see the next article which
describes the new EXEC variables which allow programmers to save
away this information).


*08/17/90  NEW EXEC VARIABLES

The following EXEC variables have been added.  They all have to do
with the "front-end" connection, so they begin with "FE_".

FE_ISNET           Returns TRUE if this is a network connection.

FE_ISLOCAL         Returns TRUE if the network originates from
                   SUNET, and FALSE if it originates outside
                   Stanford.  If this is not a network connection,
                   that information can not be determined, so FALSE
                   is returned.

FE_NETNAME         Returns the network host name of the originating
                   workstation.

FE_NETADDR         Returns the network host address of the
                   originating workstation.


*07/02/90  NEW FORMS=GBAR AND FORMS=3LAN AVAILABLE ON XEROX 4090

Two new forms codes are now available on for use on the Xerox 4090
printer:  GBAR and 3LAN.  These forms codes can be used on both SYSA
and SYSC.

GBAR output will be printed on 3-hole paper in landscape
orientation, with gray bars.  The default character set is TN13 or
TN15, depending on the record length of the print lines.  A
different character set can be specified using the CHARS option.

The 3LAN forms code is the same as GBAR except that no gray bars are
generated.  Output is printed on 3-hole paper in landscape
orientation.

The default for GBAR and 3LAN output is duplex mode; output is
printed on both sides of the paper, except that the first page of
each individual output data set or data set copy is always printed
on the front side of the paper.  Single-sided GBAR or 3LAN output
can be obtained by specifying DUPLEX=NO in JCL or by using the
NODUPLEX option on the WYLBUR PRINT command.

A new carriage control character of 'F' can be used with duplex
printing to force a page to print on the front side of the paper.
The 'F' carriage control character is the same as '1', and starts a
new page.  On the Xerox 4090 the new page will be placed on the
front side of the paper.  On other printers 'F' is treated the same
as a carriage control of '1'.  The 'F' carriage control can be used
in batch job output or in output printed from WYLBUR.

These new forms codes are intended to provide a simple way to
migrate 1181 blue-bar output to the Xerox printer.  Jobs which are
being printed on 1181 forms can be moved to the Xerox printer by
changing the forms code from 1181 to GBAR or 3LAN.  The resulting
output should have the same general appearance as the old blue-bar
output.

The new forms codes can be used in JCL or WYLBUR commands in the
same way as any of the current forms codes.  You can set one of
these forms as an account default by using the WYLBUR 'SET OUTPUT'
command.

The system treats GBAR and 3LAN forms output the same as forms 3HOL
when scheduling output on the printer.  On the system status display
the GBAR and 3LAN output will be included in the 3HOL print backlog
statistics.  The accounting records for GBAR and 3LAN printing will
show a forms code of 3HOL.


*07/02/90  TABS OPTION ON USE COMMAND

There is a new option on the USE command called "TAB" which will
retain TAB characters when USE-ing a Samson file.  For example:

   Command> use c:spread.dat tabs

If the TABS option is not specified, then TAB characters are
expanded to blanks.


*07/02/90  NEW "XLINE" VARIABLE

A new variable has been added which will return the value of the
MILTEN line (port) number for the current session.  For example:

   Command> show line
     34 GG.JDN     Jim Nisbet       WYLBUR   ELF-0155
   Command> show value xline
   34


*07/02/90  NEW "XACCOUNT" VARIABLE

The new XACCOUNT variable returns the currently logged on account
in the form GG.UUU.  For compatibility reasons, the existing ACCOUNT
variable will continue to return the account in the form UUU$GG.


*07/02/90  NEW MATCH AND RMATCH FUNCTIONS ADDED

Two new EXEC file functions have been added.  They make it easier to
check if a string begins (or ends) with a particular substring.

MATCH(string,substring[,options])
  returns TRUE if the string starts with the substring specified.
  "options" is string with characters indicating the options:
         c - do case independent match
         b - skip over leading blanks
  For example, MATCH('Tiny tim','TINY','C') would return TRUE.

RMATCH(string,substring[,options])
  returns TRUE if the string ends with the substring specified.
  "options" is string with characters indicating the options:
         c - do case independent match
         b - skip over trailing blanks
  For example, RMATCH('Tiny tim','TIM','C') would return TRUE.


*10/24/88  CHANGES TO SHOW MAIL AND SUNET MAIL PROCESSING

<.i+>SHOW MAIL Improvements<.i->
The text of a mail item will now be displayed in "LIST MIXED" form
when you issue a SHOW MAIL command.  This means that nothing bad
will happen if you inadvertently display a mail item with binary
characters in it.  Note that the "DUMP MAIL" command will NOT use
the MIXED format, the binary characters will be added (unmodified)
to your Active file.

Special formatting characters such as ".i+" enclosed in angle
brackets will still be acted upon if they occur in the mail item.

<.i+>SUNET Mail Processing<.i->
Mail sent to systems on SUNet from WYLBUR will now be transmitted
directly to the receiving system, rather than being routed through
the computer called lindy.  This change should be transparent and
should not have any affect on the process of sending mail or on the
way mail appears at the receiving system.  This new mail processing
will provide a more efficient and reliable mail service to SUNet,
and will also provide better notification of delays in delivering
mail.

There is also improved handling of mail to the LOTS DEC-20 systems
(lear, hamlet, and macbeth), which share a common set of user mail
files.  Mail sent to one of these systems while it is down will be
routed to one of the other systems that is up.  This change should
eliminate one of the major causes of long mail delivery delays.

If your SUNet mail cannot be delivered immediately (for example,
because the receiving system is down), you will receive a message
indicating that your mail has been delayed and giving the reason for
the delay.  The system will automatically retry sending the mail
every 30 minutes.  If your mail is still undelivered after 24 hours,
you will receive another notification message.  The system will
continue trying to deliver your mail for an additional 2 days.  If
the mail is still undelivered after this time then it will be
deleted from the system and you will receive a final notification
message indicating that your mail could not be delivered.

Undelivered SUNet mail messages are now kept in the JES2 job queue
and will be displayed if you enter a 'LOCATE' command.  If you have
an undelivered mail message in the queue you will get a response
like this:

  JOB 1551 JWSMAIL  IN MAIL QUEUE  DEST=NETMAILQ  LINES=11
           08/24 09:39 Mail delayed, morrow is down

'NETMAILQ' is a DEST name associated with network mail queued for
retransmission.  This example shows a mail file that couldn't be
delivered to the system called 'morrow' because that system was
down.  The time stamp on the message indicates when the first
attempt to send the mail was made.  The message will be updated if
there is a change in the reason the mail cannot be delivered.  You
can use the PURGE command at any time to remove the mail job from
the system if you don't want delivery attempts to continue any
longer.

These changes do not apply to mail sent to systems on external
networks like Arpanet and NSFnet which are accessed through SUNet.
Mail to these networks will still be sent to lindy, and from there
to the receiving system.  In the future this mail will also be sent
out directly rather than going through lindy, but this requires some
extensions to the current networking support on the 3090.

Please send questions or comments to Jim Stosick (GG.JWS).


*02/20/90  UNDOCUMENTED "SAVE *" FEATURE REMOVED

Here is one for the WYLBUR trivial pursuit fan...WYLBUR used to
allow appending characters to the "*" dsname to build a new dsname.
For example:

   Command> use myjunk
   Command> change '723-8000' to '555-1212' nolist
   Command> save *2
   MYJUNK2 saved on PUB001

It was a shorthand way of saying the current dsname plus this text.
The problem with this feature is that if someone accidentally types
"save *rep" instead of "save * rep", WYLBUR will create a data set
(MYJUNKREP in the example above) instead of replacing the original
data set.

The change is to complain that "*anytext" is a bad dsname.  Of
course, "*" by itself is still a valid data set name.  For the next
few months a log entry will be made whenever this condition arises.
No other announcement of the removal of this feature is planned.


*02/08/87  TECHNICAL INFORMATION ABOUT LOADING EXTENDED EXEC FILES

This is technical information for advanced applications.  Normally,
most users will not need to be concerned about these details.

When an Extended EXEC is loaded, it is pre-scanned and information
about the labels and matching BEGIN-END blocks is saved away.

Blank lines and lines beginning with ";" (comments) are
not loaded.  In addition, continuation lines do not appear as
continuation lines when they are loaded into the EXEC file.  Instead
they will appear as one long line.

This is one reason why you can not use the RESTORE command for
Extended EXECs.

