SYS3.SYSTEM.DOCLIB#EYESPY                  Last updated 07/31/2000
                                                  Joaquin H. Abreu


                           EYE-SPY Notes


Currently EYE-SPY is installed and active only on SYSA/D/H.

See MEMBER EYESPYNT for related info.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The products librares are prefixed SYS2.EYESPY.PROD.

LNKLIB needs to be authorized and placed in the LNKLIST.

MEMBERS IDCAMS1 and 2 need to be changed to use SMS allocation of
the VSAM.

The user must allocate a 'DBKF' dataset, the VSAM INDEX data base
file, for each account.

When a compiler changes, either because of maintenance or
installation, MACRO ESPYLD01 may need to be updated.  Lines affected
are at the bottom for the COBOL FOR OS/390 compare offsets, or at
the section for the particular compiler as identified by its program
number.  The need to change MACRO ESPYLD01 is determined when
compile is OK but EYESPY does not recognize the compiler output
passed to it.  The strings/offsets to be changed contain the string,
'1PP' followed by the compiler program number.

When changing ESPYLD01, reassamble and relink it with job ES01ASM.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

EYESPY works in two modes, PDS and VSAM FILE.

The VSAM is the default mode and requires a 'DBKF' dataset to be
defined per user/account. The 'DBKF' dataset needs to be specified
in the EYESPY PHASE2 and in the COBOL  program execution JCL. The DD
name to use is  'ESPYDBKF'. This mode may not be used for
compiler program name IKJCBL00.

For PDS mode, a PDS is allocated with the DCB attributes
consistent with the compilers //SYSPRINT DD, and the resulting
listing is kept in the PDS with a member name identical to the
program load module name.  This mode must be used with compiler
program name IKJCRCTL, and may, (optionally), be used for compiler
program name ICYCRCTL. The required DD name, //ESPYCOBL must be
specified at execution time to point to the associated listing
dataset. As with the VSAM DBKF file, the PDS dataset must be
allocated per user/account.

If the required datasets are not allocated per user/account, a
security violation is indicated and access is denied to the
implicit(default) dataset used.
