IOPROGM                                                    Mark C. Lawrence
                                                            rev. 2000/07/06

Refer to the _IOPROGM Users' Guide_, in PUBLISH, for general usage
instructions.

Production loadmodule is in SYS4.APF.PROD.LINKLIB; test version is in
SYS4.APF.TEST.LINKLIB; back version is in SYS4.APF.BACK.LINKLIB.  As the name
implies, these are APF-authorized libraries.

My source, jcl, linkedit, etc., is under WYL.GA.MCL.IOPROGM.xxx type names.

My current working source and maclib are IOPROGM.ASM and IOPROGM.MACLIB.  My
#LOGON file defines commands ASM (to assemble a module) and LINKTEST (to
linkedit a test loadmodule into WYL.GA.MCL.LINKLIB).  The ASM command invokes
IOPROGM.JCL(ASM), an execfile that builds JCL and assembles a module.
IOPROGM.LKED is the current link-edit stream.  A copy of this xproc is in
SYS3.SYSTEM.JCL(IOPROGM) and it can be used to assemble from SYS3.xx versions
of the source.

My reference copy of production source is under IOPROGM.Rxxx.ASM and .MACLIB,
where "xxx" codes the release, i.e. Release 4.0C is R40C.  System copies are
now under SYS3.IOPROGM, e.g. SYS3.IOPROGM.PROD.ASM and
SYS3.IOPROGM.PROD.MACLIB.

IOPROGM.JCL has various bits of JCL including make a test version, update prod
version, etc.; examine the directory and note the title information.  Member
ZAPPROD is used to zap the production loadmodule; it includes all zaps applied
to date.  When doing a new zap, I add it to the end, save the whole thing,
then run just the new zap.  Each zap is given a name in IDRDATA.

IOPROGM.DOC(SYSNOTE), although written for export, is a useful reference for
the internals, module names, etc.  IOPROGM.MANUAL.LIB(KEYNOTEP) is a
PostScript version of notes on the IOPROGM keyword parser and its related
macros and tables.  The IOPROGM manual is in various pieces under qualifier
IOPROGM.MANUAL, and is a Script/GML document.  The manual is normally printed
on the Xerox 4635 but can also be output as PostScript; both versions are in
PUBLISH.  There is also a viewable version in WYL.GA.MCL.ONLINE(IOPROGM).
