LIB#MVSBACKB                                  04/18/2002
                                              Karen Gibson-Mount
                                              Parker Gillespie


New Submit Process for MVS-type backups for SYSB


The process for submitting the Research Libraries Group MVS backups
has been changed from the older-style XSUBMITB exec file to an
extended-exec WYL.GW.DSK.LIBX#XBACKUP.

The major reason for the change to the new staging exec file was the
conversion of the MVS backups from 3490E cartridge tape to the
Magstar 3590 cartridges.  The Magstar cartridges have a much larger
capacity and it was necessary to "stack" multiple dumps onto a
single cartridge to preserve floor space.  The older staging
mechanism would have been difficult to modify to allow the stacking
of MVS dump tapes on a single cartridge.  The new process is set off
nightly by SPIRES SUBMIT under the account GW.DSK.

Although the staging data set WYL.GW.DSK.NEWFILEB is no longer the
driving force behind the XBACKUP exec, it is still used for logging
the completion status of all MVS volume dumps.

The new XBACKUP exec performs the following functions:


     1.  Inspect and build a table of all currently online DASD
volumes.

     2.  Categorize each online volume according to the rules as
specified in the data set WYL.GW.DSK.NEWFILE.GROUPS.  See the
internal documentation in the GROUPS file for a description of the
file formats.

     3.  Volumes are grouped according to the rules specified in the
GROUPS data set and a single job is submitted for each group, and
each group contains multiple DASD volumes.

     4.  The backup GSG name stems have not changed and remain:

             WYL.GW.DSK.DUMP [W|M].[VOLSER]

     5.  Each submitted job has a post-processing update job which
runs afer the dump has complete, where W is for weekly and  M is for
monthly.  Its job is to update the NEWFILEB data set with the ending
statuses for each volume that was dumped to cartridge tape.

Executive Summary:

     WYL.GW.DSK.LIBX#XBACKUP    - Extended Exec to stage dump jobs.
     WYL.GW.DSK.LIBX#XUPDATE    - Extended Exec to update NEWFILE.
     WYL.GW.DSK.NEWFILE.GROUPS  - Table defining which group an
                                  online volume belongs to.
     WYL.GW.DSK.NEWFILEB        - Historical dump log.

     WYL.GW.DSK.DUMPW.volser    - Weekly cataloged dump GDG
     WYL.GW.DSK.DUMPM.volser    - Monthly cataloged dump GDG
