Original in WYL.GG.JWS.MAINT#PRINTER                      09/23/97
                           DEST PRINTER INFO

A printer dest name must be 1-8 alphanumeric characters, starting
with a letter.  All network and Gandalf printer dest names are
defined in SYS3.JES.SYSA.DESTPRT.

Before adding a new dest printer, do a 'LOC ALL DEST xxxx'; you
should get 'xxxx - INVALID DEST'.  If you don't get this response
then the name is already in use.  If the conflict is with an existing
printer dest name, pick another name for the new printer.

To add a new dest name on SYSA, you need to add DESTID and DESTPR
lines to SYS3.JES.SYSA.DESTPRT.  There are two sections of printer
definitions, one for asynch (Gandalf) printers and another for
printers accessed through goddard or other network print server
systems.  Add the new printer to the end of the appropriate section,
using the preceding DESTID and DESTPR lines as a model.  Remember to
increment the N1Rnnn number you use for the new dest.

The JES2 parm file will not be read until the next system IPL.  You
can dynamically add the dest to the system before then by prefixing
the DESTID and DESTPR lines with '$' and executing them as commands
from Wylbur ($DESTID and $DESTPR).

The same procedure can be used to redefine an existing printer.  For
example, to change the printer type just change the DESTPR entry for
the printer in SYS3.JES.SYSA.DESTPRT.  Execute the DESTPR line as a
command, prefixing it with '$', and the changed definition will go
into effect.

To add a dest to SYSB you need to perform the same process on that
system.  Update SYS3.JES.SYSA.DESTPRT and then copy the new version
into SYS3.JES.SYSB.DESTPRT.  SYSB printers will be defined as N2Rnn
in the DESTID statement.

To add a 'printer logon' for a new Gandalf printer, add an entry to
WYL.GS.WYL.PRINTERS and type 'set wprinters'.  Note that this is
only for the old-style printer setup where the printer is connected
to the serial port of a terminal or PC.

Printers that are accessed over the campus network must have an entry
in WYL.GS.NET.NETPRINT.PRINTERS.  After updating this file you need
to cancel and restart the NETPRINT job so it uses the new version.
You can do this any time without losing any print jobs.

You can use the 'lpq' command from Wylbur to query the status of a
network printer (for example, 'lpq polya2').  Use this after adding a
new network printer.  If you get a response like 'your host does not
have printer access', then the system manager on the remote system
has to add 'forsythe.Stanford.EDU' to either /etc/hosts.lpd (most
Unix systems) or /etc/hosts.equiv (old 4.2 BSD systems).

ADDING A NEW PRINTER TO GODDARD

If the printer is a Laserwriter accessed directly through a Fastpath
gateway rather than going through a departmental print server
system, then you need to add the printer to goddard.  Use the
'atlooklws' program on goddard or lindy to see if the printer is
visible over the network.

Add the printer to /etc/printcap and /etc/cap.printers on goddard,
and run the command 'checkpc -f' to create a spool directory for the
printer.  The 'checkpc' command will generate a lot of extraneous
messages which you can ignore.  Just check to make sure it actually
created a new spool directory in /opt/spool for the printer.

To replicate these changes to lindy, do

   rcp /etc/printcap /etc/cap.printers lindy:/etc
   rsh lindy checkpc -f


IF GODDARD IS DOWN...

If goddard is down you can switch the network printing to lindy by
changing wyl.gs.net.netprint.printers.  Change 'goddard' to 'lindy'
in the host name column, and than cancel and restart the NETPRINT job.


IF A PRINTER HANGS...

The Laserwriter printers occasionally hang.  You can use UTIL
NETPRINT to try to restart it.  If this doesn't work then try
cycling the power on the printer.  If this doesn't work then the problem
is likely with the printer or the local network that it is attached
to.  You can use 'atlooklws <zone name>' on lindy to check if the
printer is responding to Appletalk.


CHANGING A LOCAL PRINTER TYPE

To change the type of a local printer, update its DESTPR entry in the
SYS3.JES.SYSA.DESTPRT file.  To put the change info effect
immediately, prefix the command with '$' and execute it as a $DESTPR
Wylbur command.

IF NETWORK PRINTING JOBS ARE QUEUEING UP ON SYSA

Sometimes the NETPRINT job hangs because of Wylbur problems.  If
network print jobs are queueing up and not being sent, try cancelling
the NETPRINT job and restarting it.

You can display the backlog of network print jobs by using this
command from Wylbur or a console:

    $DF,R=R400-R899
