                                                  Sept. 22, 1999
                                                  Written by WJB

The Auto-Submit Monitor was written as a set of old style EXECs in
1985 by Bill Bauriedel.  The main EXEC (WYL.AY.OTH.EXEC#MATCH) is
executed periodically during the day checking for job failures and
timeout conditions and notifying the appropriate people if a failure
is detected.  The jobs being checked must be submitted via
Auto-Submit and each such job must have two special steps at the end
of the job.  There must also be an entry in a table called
WYL.GP.SUB.MONITOR.  Once these things are in place #MATCH can do
its checking.

The process begins fresh each day with the submission of two
separate jobs.  RESETLOG is submitted by GG.SUB as part of the
Auto-Submit process.  This job backs up various tables and resets
those tables for the new day.  The JCL can be found at
WYL.GP.SUB.LIB#RESETLOG.

The process of submitting #MATCH periodically during the day is
somewhat complicated.  The first thing that happens is that
AutoSubmit submits either #WEEKDAYS,  #SATURDAY or #SUNDAY from
WYL.GR.SUP.AUTOCMDS.  These are jobs in submit on account GR.SUP.
Each of these three jobs have a series of $TA commands to submit
#MATCH at various times throughout the day.  Each $TA command
executes the job called SUBMITCK in WYL.GR.OPS.SYSA.PROCS#MATCH
which is run on account GP.SUB.  That job in turn executes a BATWYL
step which executes WYL.AY.OTH.EXEC#MATCH.

Documentation on the auto-submit monitor system and its associated
tables is found in the LIB for account GP.SUB.   Good pointers to
various pieces of documentation are found in the #LOGON member.
